### Chapter VIII: Religion & Superstition 

*"…and his faith in the Emperor was both his shield and his sword…"*

— Except from *the First Book of Saint Drusus*.

The Imperium is a star-spanning empire, built upon the will of a single individual—the Emperor. He is both god and lord to uncounted billions across tens of thousands of light years of space. He stands above the highest of the Lords of Terra and has no equal. Belief in the Emperor is not an act of faith or a personal choice, but rather an irrefutable fact. The Emperor exists; it is through His efforts that the Imperium of Man endures. When a man looks up into a night sky filled with stars, he knows without question that he gazes upon the God-Emperor's domain. Nor does the Emperor tolerate those who do not offer Him worship. Either you are counted among His servants or you are marked as an enemy to all mankind and damned forever in His eyes. Delivering the word of the Emperor falls to the Ministorum, also known as the Ecclesiarcy or Cult of the Emperor, a vast cult that spans the galaxy. On almost every world in the Imperium, preachers, confessors and zealous missionaries spread His word and enforce His spiritual rule. Imperial citizens are raised to the sound of songs sung in His name and taught to venerate Him in all of their endeavours. The Emperor and the Imperium are one and the same; inextricably intertwined and dependant on each other for existence. T

This is the universe into which an Acolyte of the Inquisition is born. Whether base-born scum from the toxic depths of a hive world, a naked primitive who stares in wonder at the night sky or a scion of the Adeptus Mechanicus birthed from a vat, they are all born into the world of the God-Emperor. Growing up in such an environment is to know beyond a shadow of a doubt that it is the Emperor that keeps the dark of the void at bay. Of course, a lifetime of exposure to the worship of the Emperor and the wonder of His saints does not make every Acolyte a devout worshipper, though; there are few that would openly reject His divinity (well, few that have lived very long after expressing such opinions). For most Acolytes, their faith extends to a firm belief in the power of the Emperor. After all, the proof of His majesty is writ large wherever the Imperium extends. Beyond this, however, the Emperor is just another master, unseen, but ever watchful (much like the Inquisition). However, that being said, an Acolyte's line of work is somewhat risky, to say the least, and, like most who regularly place themselves in "harm's way", they tend to find solace in superstition. To this end, many Acolytes favour a saint (or many saints), invoking their names to "help" them accomplish their tasks. Even an Acolyte who scorns the endless prattle of a preacher will, more often than not, say a quick prayer to Vidicus the Saint of Forlorn Plans and tuck a stone-shard from the tomb of Drusus into his sleeve before leaping into the fray.

This chapter explores the role that the Ministorum, the saints and the worship of the God-Emperor play in an Acolyte's life. It delves into the myriad of ways in which the Emperor is revered and the various organisations and people that devote their lives to His service. It also reveals how, simultaneously, the followers of the Emperor of Mankind can be both resolutely unified and dangerously fractured in their faith—this last part being especially true for that manyarmed beast known as the Holy Inquisition. Here you will find information on how the Ministorum spreads the word of the Emperor and the process of bringing new worlds "into His light"—a task that Acolytes can sometimes find themselves involved in. Also of importance to Acolytes is a guide to rooting out heresy and heretical cults. Often the taint of corruption hides behind faith in the Emperor and only through the eternal vigilance of both the Inquisition and the Ministorum can such blasphemies be discovered and destroyed. Finally, contained herein is a list of saints, relics and pilgrimages to help Acolytes better observe their worship of the Emperor.

#### **Holy Days**

Every world in the Imperium (and often nations and communities on that world) observes its own set of holidays and religious festivals in the name of the Emperor. There are, however, a number of holidays common to many worlds in Calixis, though their time and the exact details of their execution still vary from world to world.

#### **Feast of the Emperor's Ascension**

This annual event is the most common festival held in the Emperor's name. It celebrates the moment, ten thousand years ago, when He was raised to the Golden Throne and made the transition to divinity. On many worlds this is a week-long event, with feasting, games and spectacles to honour the Emperor. Often symbolic sacrifices are made in His name, such as the burning of books to offer their knowledge up to Him. It is also an auspicious time to join people in wedlock or conceive children, leading to mass gatherings of citizens intent on one or both of these undertakings. It is also said that during the Emperor's Ascension, no false judgements can be made, making it impossible to overturn a ruling made during this time.

Not all worlds celebrate the Ascension with feasts and festivals. On some, especially primitive worlds, this holiday marks a time when the Emperor looks down from His divine realm and remembers His mortal followers. It is at this time that those brave and bold enough can earn a place at His side. Thus the Ascension becomes a bloody time when men and women fight and die in an effort to please the Emperor, each trying to outdo the courage and skill of the others.

However it is celebrated, the Feast of the Emperor's Ascension is the most notable Imperial holiday and the one that the majority of Imperial civilians observe, even if they do so only to gain a brief respite from their daily drudgery.

#### **Drusus Day**

Drusus is the patron saint of the Calixis Sector and is venerated first among the saints on dozens of worlds. It is unsurprising, then, that he has a day dedicated to his memory and his achievements. Celebrated at the turning of a planet's cycle, when it takes the first day of a new year, Drusus Day reminds people that "new beginnings" are the gift that Drusus brings. When he led his armies into the Calixis Sector and drove out the xenos and rebels, he brought with him the gift of brotherhood and unification from Terra. On this day, citizens, especially soldiers, renew their vows and oaths to the Golden Throne and all it stands for. Clerics too remind people of the saint's sacrifice and courage by putting on retellings of the crusade. In these stories, depending where the tale is told, each world often plays up its own importance, claiming that theirs was the first to be liberated or was the only one that rose up to aid the crusaders, or some equally fanciful twist. Drusus Day is a popular time for thousands of pilgrims to embark upon retracing the steps of the warriors of old.

#### **Festival of Saints**

Most saints have their own holy days that are specific to them and their deeds (such as Drusus). However, the Festival of Saints provides a day for all saints to be honoured, as well as a time when new saints may be considered to join their ranks. This is especially important for very minor saints, such as Yorgic Thrice-Branded or Ewerft the Handless, who have small followings and little power within the Ecclesiarchy. During this time, stories are told and devout followers try and convert people by extolling the virtues and merits of their chosen saint. As a result, it can be a dangerous (or at least frightening) time to go near to a shrine as citizens are accosted by frothing saint worshippers dressed in bizarre costumes and spouting proverbs. Causing an equally strong response is the chance of being raised to sainthood. While it is uncommon for anyone to be so bold as to try and claim that they themselves should become a saint (though there are a few that have tried—some with surprisingly good cases), everyone seems to know of someone who died serving the Emperor and thus deserves the eternal recognition of the Ecclesiarchy. As a result, clerics and priests are subjected to long lines of supplicants and must listen to countless hours of prattle to then judge whether any are worthy of the greater attention of the Ecclesiarchy. Needless to say, it almost never happens; the last saint raised in the Calixis Sector occurred some two centuries ago.

#### **Emperor's Gift**

Every planet in the Imperium owes loyalty and gives tithe to the Emperor. Whether this tithe is collected once every solar cycle or once every one hundred years, it is the first and most important responsibility that the Emperor demands of His subjects. Because of the importance of a planet's tithe, it has on many worlds become a sacred day known as the Emperor's Gift. On this day when millions of tonnes of ore, precious metals or foodstuff are borne skyward, citizens look up and give thanks to their contribution to the great work that is the Imperium. It is also on this day that a world offers up newly raised Guard regiments, fresh-faced soldiers who leave their world forever to serve the Emperor among the stars. These men or women spend the day of the Gift enjoying themselves and are refused very little by those they leave behind—in some places it is considered good luck to serve such soldiers before they depart. The Gift is also a time of fierce pride amongst citizens toward their world, making it dangerous to be an off-worlder, for slandering the name of a planet during the time of the Gift is almost guaranteed to start a fight. Some have speculated that it was, in fact, not the Ecclesiarchy but the Administratum that sanctioned this holiday. After all, how else could you hope to strip a planet of its wealth and leave it feeling good about it?

#### **The Burning of Sins**

Sin is a concept propagated by the Ministorum on every world it touches. It is the unconscious debt all citizens owe to the Emperor for the improper way in which they live their lives. Because most people feel bad about themselves most of the time, it is not hard for the Ministorum to convince them that they are sinners, and that they must somehow make amends. This was no doubt the logic behind the holiday known as the Burning of Sins. At this time people are allowed to absolve themselves of their wrong doings and transgressions against the Ecclesiarchy through a symbolic burning of their sins. Great bonfires are built before cathedrals and shrines, and citizens gather, clutching their sins written onto paper. Those who are brave enough can then come forward and let the presiding cleric or priest read aloud the sin and decide whether or not to grant forgiveness. If he does so, the sin is thrown into the fire and the citizen receives a blessing and permission to leave. If however, the sin is too great for such a simple "fix", then the citizen has a choice: they may either tithe the sin's monetary worth to the Ecclesiarchy, (a sum decided on by the cleric), or leap into the flames themselves.

### <span id="page-198-0"></span>A Dark Millennium A Dark Mille n n ium

*"Stand fast brothers! We are on the precipice, gazing into the void, with only His hand to stay our fall!"*

— Vorgrett Gors, preacher attached 117th Barsapine Light Foot.

I t is a dark time for the Imperium. Beset by foes within and without, it clings precariously to an empire grown large and fractious. For most, this means they are alone in the universe, never setting foot beyond their worlds (sometimes travelling no more than a few kilometres from the place of their birth), and never fully comprehending the great empire in which they live. For many, all that connects them with the galaxy-spanning brotherhood of man is the Cult of the Emperor, a divine being so great that it is said that without Him the human race would perish and vanish from the stars forever. Unlike many religions, however, this one is base solidly on truth. The Emperor does, in fact, protect and guide the Imperium. For it is the very "light" he projects through the warp from Terra, known as the Astronomican, that helps vessels to find their way in the warp across tens of thousands of light years. His was also the hand that forged the mighty Adeptus Astartes, whose legions carved out the Imperium and who, even now, stand watch over their master's domain. I

More important than the physical facts, though, is the idea of what the Emperor embodies. Nothing as vast or diverse as the Imperium could hope to survive through mere administration or law alone (though the Administratum would have you believe otherwise). Instead, it is the belief in the power and divinity of the Emperor that unites its citizens, a belief that has forged mankind into a single cultural identity. Even the most isolated of worlds can know that, from His Golden Throne on Holy Terra, the Emperor is watching them, guiding them and protecting them from the unspeakable terrors that haunt the darkness beyond.

#### **A Life of Worship** A Life of Worship

The Emperor has a profound effect in the lives of the people he protects. To most, He is everywhere and everything. Part of every citizen's life is to honour the Emperor, often on a daily basis, for the protection and guidance that He provides. How they honour Him, however, will of course vary depending on where they live and just how they choose to view the Emperor. For example, on the world of Acreage, the priests of the High King teach that the Emperor is the "King of the Sky"; sky-mill workers must keep there eyes averted from the heavens when they work high above the ground, lest they anger Him with their impudence. Villages often make "candle-balloons" in which to offer their prayers. On the mining world of Luggnum, the pit-shafts are so dangerous that all miners undertake hour-long blessings by the station abbot before they descend. Miners that have refused or avoided such blessings are scorned (or even killed) by their co-workers, lest they bring ill-luck to all, proving that perhaps the blessing does in fact protect from harm. Then there are worlds like Dwimlicht, a feral world far from the civilized core of the sector, where primitive locals see the Emperor as a mighty star-god and shave their heads so that at night He might look into their minds with His million eyes and see that they are faithful.

Whatever the world's particular teachings, almost universally, citizens pray before work, before meals and before downtime. They thank the Emperor for what they have and pray to Him for what they desire. As most citizens of the Imperium are poorly educated, often knowing only what they need to do their jobs, prayer and the teachings of the Ministorum are all they know of the galaxy or world beyond their homes. They often believe wholeheartedly that if they do not pray to the Emperor and follow the instructions of His clerics, they risk their very souls (a belief unfortunately justified on many worlds). Over time, citizens become entwined in the rituals of worship, so that daily prayers to the Emperor are as natural to them as breathing. For most, this is as far as they come in their religious observance, convinced of their faith, living and dying without ever questioning the Ministorum or the god it serves.

Of course there are those who stray from the path. Paying no more than lip service to the Imperial Creed, these people forget their faith (if indeed they ever had it) and instead choose to see the Emperor as a distant overlord, ruling an empire that He will never see from a state of neither death nor life. Such folk choose to live by their own set of morals and ethics, though usually they have little of either. On many advanced worlds these kinds of people thrive. Where the rise of technology has overshadowed spirituality and wonder, so too does it undermine the belief in a power greater than mankind. Such places can be breeding grounds for the faithless or for those that would scorn the power of the Emperor for more tangible and immediate rewards.

For many citizens, however, the truth is, as always, somewhere between fevered worship and the brink of heresy. Most citizens pray at their local shrine once a ten-cycle, and invoke the Emperor's name to protect them from evil; but beyond this they go about their daily lives like everybody else.

### <span id="page-199-0"></span>A Question of Faith A Question of Faith

J ust what your PC believes, when it comes to the Imperial Creed is up to you. All Acolytes have been raised in the shadow of the Cult of the Emperor and cannot doubt His influence and the power of the Imperium. However, deciding to accept or reject any of the myriad of nuances making up His religion, such as the stock placed in certain saints or the best way to interpret His will, is up to you to decide. The following questions may be used to help you round out your character's religious beliefs. J

#### **How was the Emperor revered on your home world?**

The worship of the Emperor varies greatly from world to world and, quite often different cultures focus on a key aspect of His power. For instance, on an agri-world it might be the grace of the Emperor that protects and nurtures their crops and villages, while keeping them safe in the night. Hence the population would view Him as a benevolent figure that guides and shelters them. Alternatively on a penal world, the Emperor is a harsh judge and overseer who weighs your every deed and strikes you down if you are found wanting. Here the population would view Him as an unquestionable overlord to be obeyed and feared. These various experiences colour how you see the Emperor and His role in your character's life; even though your circumstances may have now changed, you remember the mighty Star-God or glowering statues of your childhood.

#### **Were there any saints on your home world?**

Many worlds have their own saints, whether sanctioned by the Ecclesiarchy or not. This helps people to better relate to the Emperor and His Creed. After all, at one time or another, saints were humans who lived, struggled and died in His name. If your character grew up on a world where the Ecclesiarchy was strong, it is likely that he or she would have also been taught about some of the many saints of the Imperium and be able to name each of the twenty-three trials of Quirdas, or tell the story of Kinorr the Pure and the three-armed Ork for instance. You would also have been taught about any local saints, such as the founder of your world (provided he was not a foul traitor who resisted the Imperium in any way). All this, of course, is not to say that a character born far from the schooling of the Ecclesiarchy could not come from a world blessed by saints. In many primitive cultures, for instance, the first warrior to approach the skyship when it landed is credited for "welcoming" the Emperor to their world (whether he got a bolt shell for his troubles or not).

#### **Are there any saints that you personally identify with?**

Where the Cult of the Emperor is strong, so too is the influence of its saints. On such devout worlds, when a child first receives the blessing of the Emperor it is not uncommon for the residing cleric to choose a saint to watch over the infant, sometimes adding the saint's name to that of the child. These guardian saints are said to follow the person through his life, helping him to overcome his problems and finally, when he dies, usher him into the Emperor's light. Sometimes, people come to have a guardian saint through other means, such as a man who nearly drowns taking up the worship of Epps the Unwell, saint of dangerous environments, for example. So it is possible, either though his upbringing or a chance event, that your character may have a very close relationship with one or more saints, praying to them regularly and looking to them for guidance in times of need.

#### **How do you believe people should best serve the Emperor?**

The people of the Imperium are often taught that they serve the Emperor in everything they do, whether it is vanquishing His foes or cleaning bilges on His cargo ships. However, most citizens of the Imperium believe that certain tasks please the Emperor more than others. For example, many believe that there is no greater service to the Emperor than killing His foes, be they aliens, heretics or witches. These people claim that His favour can only be found by wading through a sea of xenos blood. Others extol the virtues of self-deprivation and abstinence, claiming that the true light of the Emperor can only be found within our frail mortal shell. These folk suggest fasting and flagellating as the means to seek His grace. Some believe that what the Emperor truly desires is souls to cry out His name in worship, demanding that His word be spread to new worlds in order to turn unbelievers from their wicked ways and into His light. Of course it can be all of these or none, and ultimately it is up to you to choose just what your character believes.

#### **What do you believe will happen when you die?**

The Imperium is a violent, perilous place where life is cheap and death is common. For citizens on even the most stable and safe of worlds, most expect a lifetime of toil that leads to an unmarked grave. For this reason, the Ministorum teaches that, through service and sacrifice to the Emperor, the faithful can find eternal peace beyond the gates of death. For many, it is enough to know that no matter how terrible their lives or the drudgery of their days, this reward awaits them. Some, however, know more than they care to about the nature of the universe and the things lurking beyond the veil of death. Acolytes often know or have seen things that can alter their perception of death and what lies beyond, all of which is tied closely to their religious outlook. It is possible that every action your character makes is a step along the path to his eternal reward at the Emperor's side, or perhaps your Acolyte has seen too much and knows that all they have to look forward to is the chilling madness of the warp. In either case, with such a risky occupation, your character's feelings about death can have a profound effect on his personality and how he reacts to others.

#### **How has the Ministorum affected your life?**

Finally, the most important aspect about how your character feels about the Ecclesiarchy and the worship of the Emperor comes down to how he or she was treated by those that claim to work in His name. Perhaps he was treated well by the faith, raised by caring, if strict, abbots and clerics of the Schola Progenium and he views all those who wear the mantle of the Ministorum with respect and obedience. On the other hand, your character might have seen his family and friends put to the torch for trivial crimes in the name of the Emperor by corrupt and cruel confessors, leaving him with a deep distrust of those who claim to work in His holy name. This can be made more complicated by the fact that the Ministorum is often at odds with itself, and, like the Inquisition, there are equal amounts of the faithful and the flawed in its ranks.

# <span id="page-200-0"></span>Imperial Cults Imp erial Cults

*"No, no, the Sons of Sol are those chaps in the golden hoods; the Sons of Sept are the ones who paint their fingers and toes blue."* — Conversation between two merchants during the Festival of Saints, Scintilla.

Within the sprawling infrastructure of the Ministorum there are countless factions, philosophies and fraternities all striving to worship the Emperor in their own unique way. These groups gather about themselves followers, power and influence and have become "cults". A cult is simply a particular brand of Emperor worship that has the sanctioning of the Ecclesiarchy. They come about most commonly for two reasons. Firstly, when the Ministorum brings a new world into the fold of the Imperium and absorbs the local religion (allowing the natives to retain their holy days, rites and customs in exchange for supplanting their god(s) with the Emperor). Thus a new cult is formed, with its very own set of rules, rituals and saints. W

The second instance occurs when a (rare) individual arises whose deeds in the name of the Emperor become legend and inspires others to follow in his footsteps. Such an occurrence requires careful scrutiny by the Ecclesiarchy to determine whether or not such an individual's motives and practices were "pure". In many cases, whether such sanctioning is granted or not, the individual becomes the focus of a cult, who attempt to emulate their idol in an effort to better serve the Emperor. However they form, cults can wield great

power within the Ecclesiarchy and, by extension, across the Imperium. Belonging to the right cult can mean favour and status, just as belonging to the wrong cult can get you killed. Cults bring both stability and discord to the Ministorum. They create the former by bringing together millions of souls in to the light of the Emperor. By allowing cultures to retain the comfort and familiarity of their old faith in the form of a cult, the Ministorum unites men and women who have little in common beyond a genetic ancestry. As a result, all Imperial cults are one because they all worship the Emperor. Such diversity, however, can also cause internal conflict and strife. Many cults clash over small nuisances of faith, such as disagreeing over which foot to lead with when entering a shrine, lest the Emperor become angered by being presented with a "lesser" soul. The results of these altercations can range from small local affairs, limited to heated arguments and sly politically manoeuvring, to planet or system-wide pogroms being enacted against a particular cult. At any one time, it is likely that dozens of cults across a sector are engaged in some form of conflict, often resulting in open warfare. The Ministorum only steps into such conflicts if they either threaten the stability of the Imperium (which is to say it threatens to delay or reduce a planetary tithe), or if it strays into heretical thinking. Otherwise, they are content to let cults settle their differences as they see fit, as long as they do so in the name of the Emperor.

Beyond facilitating variant peoples to worship the Emperor, cults are also an avenue of attack for those that would seek to subvert and destroy the Imperium. Tragically, the abundance of cults is a breeding ground for such foul and dark practices as xenos worship and veneration of the Ruinous Powers. Under the guise of revering the Emperor, such groups can spread and prosper unnoticed. This can make it difficult to tell the difference between a cult that is sincere in its devotion to the Emperor and one that hides a festering heart of heresy. Of course this is where the Inquisition comes in…

#### **Calixian Cults** Calixian Cults

There are many sanctioned cults within the Calixis Sector, some of which boast considerable wealth and power, as well as a prestigious membership. It is almost certain that some of these are known to Acolytes, either because of the cult's reputation (whether fair or foul) or because of its influence within the Ministorum. Some may even become allies or patrons to Acolytes in the course of their Inquisitorial duties, though, it is often difficult to tell whether such aid is for the good of the Imperium, or the good of the cult. Listed here is a selection of cults that thrive within the sector.

#### **Drusians**

The Drusians were among the first of the Calixian cults to gain official recognition by the Ministorum. Formed in the wake of Drusus's rise to sainthood, it quickly spread across the sector and it is said that even Cardinal Ignato himself is counted among its numbers. The purpose of the cult is simple: to continue the great work of Drusus through the tightening of Imperial control within the Calixis Sector. Only through total dominance of the sector can Drusus's memory be properly honoured and his dream of total conquest realised. Drusian cultists teach that bravery and sacrifice in the Emperor's name is paramount. Those not willing to give their lives for the Emperor are unworthy to receive His blessing. Likewise, to refuse to battle the enemies of the Imperium, or worse yet, make common cause with them, is an unforgivable and irredeemable sin.

The cult's most important holy day is, unsurprising, Drusus Day. Cult members must gather and proclaim deeds done in the saint's name for the year past. The cult primarily attracts soldiers and other martially-orientated individuals, though it is open to anyone who would kneel before the statue of the saint and vow to continue his work. The cult's symbol is the Blade of Drusus, a curved silver chainsword.

#### **The Vitrian Covenant**

Like much of the rest of the Imperium, the Calixis Sector is touched by the green-plague: Orks. Whilst Calixis has, so far, been fortunate to have avoided a full scale invasion, there are pockets of feral Orks infesting the deep wilds of certain feral worlds, as well as, their more "advanced" cousins who have appeared to threaten numerous outposts and colonies. Orks are the focus of the Vitrian Covenant, a cult formed with the imperative of destroying these hated aliens. Vitrian was a confessor who fought alongside the Heronoris 88th in the 4th Epocanus Crusade. Just before the final defence of Spire City against the Obsidian Tooth Orks, Vitrian gave a speech to the soldiers, declaring a promise that, if the Emperor gave them victory, he would not to rest until all Orks had been purged from Calixis. Against the odds, the Orks were repelled and destroyed, thus the Covenant was forged. Though Vitrian was killed during the battle, the survivors went on to spread the word. Many men and women who had had their lives destroyed by Orks joined, all united in ending the alien menace within the sector.

The cult works on two levels. The first are those who tell the story of the Battle of the Spire, and how the Emperor sent to them a message of their final triumph in that victory. These members also seek out war zones where Orks are being fought to take an active roll in the destruction of the xenos. The second are those who move behind the scenes, using the cult's finances to help fund enterprises and campaigns that lead to the destruction of Orks. These cultists also engage in political manoeuvring to get more Imperial resources diverted to eradicate the Orks and try and gain support to launch new military campaigns into known Ork territory.

As a martial cult, the Vitrian Covenant honours the holy days of warrior saints, including Drusus, especially those that won great battles against the greenskins. They have also been known to stage great symbolic Ork sacrifices during the Feast of the Emperor's Ascension. On more civilized worlds, this is usually the burning of effigies or the killing of criminals painted green, though in some places actual Orks are used (though they are usually battlefield dead). The membership of the cult varies widely, though most have had some part of their life affected by Orks. This could be as traumatic as the loss of a loved one or as trivial as having the

supply of your favourite cheese interrupted by an Ork raid on Imperial shipping. Whatever the case, all cult members passionately hate Orks. The cult's symbol is a flaming spire, commemorating the formation of the Covenant.

#### **Sisters of the Void**

This benevolent all-female cult spends much of its time plying the space-routes between worlds, helping travellers and crew to deal with the stresses of the warp. Formed unofficially as a group of clerics and priests to help travellers, they were eventually recognised and sanctioned by the Ecclesiarchy. Since that time, their numbers have continued to swell. The Sisters can mostly be found on pilgrim trails, though, there is a chance of encountering them on any Imperial vessel. Few captains would refuse passage to a Sister and most crews readily welcome their presence. No one knows why the cult only allows female members, although it has been rumoured that it has something to do with the nature of warp travel. There is an old, though unproven, belief that women can cope better with this kind of travel, their minds being more resilient to its inherent dangers. In any case, few males would probably be interested in joining what they see as a nonmilitant cult of "nurses".

The cult has no saints of its own, though it does revere holy days that reflect its beliefs. The cult attracts strong women, from all strata of society, who have decided to leave their lives behind to help others. A large proportion of the cult is

made up of void born, many of whom have grow up with the Sisters in their midst. The symbol of the cult is a black disk, representing the emptiness of space. It is worth noting that, unlike most cults that have shrines on many worlds and large central churches from where the cult is governed, the Sisters have but a single shrine. This can be found on the Misericord and acts as the single official meeting place for the Sisters of the Void.

#### **The Redemption**

The Redemption is an extreme faction of the Ministorum found in many parts of the Imperium. Depending on whom you ask, it is either described as a refuge for bloodthirsty zealots and madmen, or the last true cult of the Emperor. This split view springs from the fact that the members of the Redemption are ultra-puritanical in their execution of what they perceive as the Emperor's will. They pride themselves on hunting down and expunging mutants, psykers and heretics with no respite and no quarter. They are also very fond of fire.

To belong to the Redemption is to embark on a lifelong quest to purge the Imperium of taint, usually through the most violent means possible. After all, the Redemption teaches that there are no half measures. The cult is also much easier to join than it is to leave, as many cultists take a very dim view of those that would "betray" the Emperor in such a way. Redemptionists, as they are commonly known, have been known to turn on their own at the slightest hint of taint, tearing them to bits and burning the remains.

The cult only observes the holy days of the Emperor, who they see as the only true power in the Imperium. They are distrustful of other cults and saints, always suspecting them of corruption and treachery. The cult's membership is made up mostly of the poor, downtrodden and illiterate masses of the Imperium who find within its ranks a sense of power and purpose. These unflagging soldiers of faith are led by dangerous and charismatic individuals, driven by their devotion to the Emperor. The Redemption has many symbols throughout the Imperium, though within the Calixis Sector the most common is the sign of crossed torches.

#### **Belonging to a Cult**

Many Acolytes were once part of, or still belong to, a variant cult of Emperor worship. This could be because of the world on which they were born, the nature of their profession or the result of a life-changing event. Whatever the case, being part of a cult often marks one for life, becoming an important part of the Acolyte's identity and often imposing upon them a code of behaviour and conduct. This can sometimes create a conflict of interest where the Acolyte's cult requires them to do one thing, while their Inquisitor requires them to do another. Fortunately, such occurrences are rare, and Inquisitors are careful to recruit Acolytes whose beliefs and motivations harmonise with their own. Far more likely is that the cult an Acolyte's Inquisitor belongs to influences his decisions, and by extension, his Acolytes.

Some of the common commitments that come with being part of a cult can include such things as giving tithes, observing special rituals or holy days, attending cult gatherings or making contact with local cult members when travelling and spreading the word of the cult, whether overtly or covertly.

The first of these is probably the most important; after all, without the tithes and gifts of the cult members many cults could not exist. While money is always an accepted method of showing one's devotion to a cult, those with special talents or privilege can show it in other ways. This is especially true of Acolytes whose relative freedom within the structures of Imperial society allow them access denied to most citizenry. Thus an Acolyte may be called upon to deliver messages, check up on wayward cult members or seek out new converts in their travels. Other sacrifices may also be required in place of a monetary tithe. These can include anything from information gathering to offering up friends and family members to serve the cult. Whatever the case, few cult members resent these tithes, as they seem them as simply part of their greater devotion to the Emperor.

The observance of certain rituals and rites is another part of belonging to a cult. While outsiders may view such things as unusual dress, erratic sleeping habits and eccentricities, these are solemn duties for a cult member. To spurn such rites is to display a lack of conviction in one's beliefs and, by extension, a lack of faith in the cult. Marking holy days is also a part of a cultist's duty. This can sometimes be tricky for individuals such as Acolytes who find themselves travelling from world to world, where cycles, seasons and years can vary wildly. The usual practice to get around this is to keep a personal time, marking the days by the Acolyte's own waking and sleeping. In any event, a holy day takes precedent over most things that the Acolyte does that day, and can sometimes lead to them refusing to travel, fight or engage in social behaviour until it has passed.

It is also required of a cultist to make contact and common cause with other cultists wherever they travel. Likewise, an Acolyte cultist should be able to call upon the cult if in need. The reality of this, however, is that a cultist inevitably ends up doing far more for the cult than it does for him. Of course if he truly believes in the cult's teachings, he won't mind. This can cause problems for Acolytes, who might find themselves drawn into local disputes and conflicts. While most cults respect the work of the Inquisition and leave Acolytes to do their holy duty, some are not above using an Acolyte's position to their own ends. At this point, it falls to the Acolyte to decide whether aiding the local cultists is worth the trouble it might cause.

As should be apparent, being a "good" cultist is a lot of work and only those Acolytes who really want to belong to a cult should consider joining one.

### <span id="page-204-0"></span>The Word of the Emperor The Word of the Emp eror

*"The Emperor's light can reach every corner of this galaxy, so long as we bear his torch."*

— Pax Missionary Flestin Drunn.

The Ecclesiarchy never stops spreading the teaching of the Emperor. It is a faith constantly expanding, growing and spreading on the heels of the Imperium's armies. Not counting those worlds soiled by aliens or incapable of supporting life, there are countless worlds where humanity has taken root but has lost contact with the Imperium. Often these places fall to barbarism and the worship of heathen gods, isolated and alone as they are in a hostile universe. When such a world is discovered, the Ministorum is among the first to make contact, ensuring that the local population embraces the glory of the Emperor. They are also vital in weeding out heresy among the inhabitants and deciding whether or not they are a worthy addition to the Imperium. In some cases, a population is irredeemable and must be purged, so that the world can be resettled with "good" stock. Even after a world has accepted the rule and worship of the Emperor, complete conversion of the population can take many years. Whole arms of the Ministorum are dedicated to this task and travel from world to world, ensuring the faith of local populations. T

#### **New Worlds** New Worlds

When a new world is identified, the Administratum records its position and reviews its worth based on the information at hand. While some worlds are discovered by Imperial explorator fleets, most are chanced upon by individual vessels such as Rogue Traders and other questionable characters. Initial information about the new world can be sketchy at best or misleading at worst. More than one Rogue Trader has concealed the location or details of a planet so they might exploit it themselves. In any case, once the Administratum has properly processed the information available, a task that can sometimes take years given the thousands of worlds discovered within the Imperium each year, they issue it a priority. This is an order that allows other arms of the Imperium to decide whether or not the planet is worth their notice. If the world appears to have a human population, the Ministorum becomes involved.

The next step when such a world has been identified is to conduct a high-orbit survey. This allows data to be gathered, such as the technology level of the world, basic geography and a list of its abundant resources. Depending on the sophistication of the populace, this may be the point where they become aware of Imperial presence. When this is the case, one of two things occur: they concede to the will of the Imperium, or they resist. In the latter case, Imperial forces are swift and brutal in the suppression of such dissent, crushing it utterly. If this occurs, or the inhabitants remain unaware of the gaze of the Imperium, then things move along to the next step.

Now the Ministorum arrives in full force, hundreds of missionaries and thousands of lesser Ecclesiarchy servants descend upon the world. Their task is to educate the populace and instruct them in the worship of the Emperor. They are also there to delve into the planet's culture and history to examine it for signs of taint. Typically, they start with the world's leaders, kings, governors and dictators. Turning them to the cult makes it easier to sway their subjects. They subvert local beliefs and religions, either by integrating them into the Ministorum as a cult of Emperor worship or by outlawing them as heresy. Over time, the population is taught that they have always been servants of the Emperor and the gods they once worshiped have been "echoes" of His great cult all along.

Dealing with Heresy

Acolytes sometimes play a role in this part of a world's integration into the Imperium. Called upon by the Inquisition, they arrive disguised as settlers or traders and integrate themselves inside the communities. They explore the culture and the planet, often travelling to remote areas in search of the stain of heresy and sedition.

### The Taint of Heresy The Tain t of Heresy

#### *"My first clue? Well the tentacles were a tip-off."*

I

— Confessor Crexus. n its simplest terms, heresy is anything that contravenes the worship of the Emperor or goes against the Imperium. Because the Emperor is not just a ruler—He is a god, to take up arms against Him or His followers is more than treason, it is heresy. Thus all enemies of the Imperium can also be deemed "heretics". Of course this is not always the case, as the Ministorum seldom marks people as heretics for trying to throw off the yoke of Imperial rule or killing a Guardsman. These are simply rebels and, though their deeds may hide the taint of heresy, they are usually dealt with by more conventional forces. The Ecclesiarchy is more interested in those that not only reject the Emperor, but also embrace something else in His place. These slaves and servants to alien and warp entities are viewed as true heretics and their discovery and eradication is a prime I

goal of the Ministorum throughout the Imperium. Finding such heretics can, however, be a difficult task. Amidst the thousands of Imperial cults and saints, it is easy for seemingly faithful practises to mask heretical deeds. To a certain degree, the Ministorum polices its own ranks against this corruption, but it is an impossible task keeping tabs on a cult that spans tens of thousands of light years and countless worlds. Even those who obviously seem to bear taint are not always guilty. Psykers and mutants, for instance, are two groups that often bear the suspicion of heresy, sometimes unfairly, sometimes not. While it would be convenient to brand all of these individuals as an affront to the Emperor and a scourge upon the Imperium, they are far too integrated into Imperial society to purge them wholesale.

<span id="page-205-0"></span>As a result, the Ministorum and other Imperial forces such as the Inquisition, must rely on investigation and intelligence gathering. Planets and their populations must be watched and monitored for signs of taint. Saints and cults must be screened and rumours of dark deeds investigated.

#### **Dealing with Heresy** Dealing with Heresy

Acolytes often find themselves presented with the question of whether or not someone or something is heretical. Though by the time they have become involved, there is a good chance that something foul is afoot. In any case, they must still try and identify the true heretics from the simply malcontent. It is taught that there are three stages to the identification and eradication of heresy. These are suspicion, investigation and purging.

#### **Suspicion**

Often the only clue an Acolyte has to the presence of heresy is through his instincts. The Ecclesiarchy and the Inquisition both encourage investigators to follow these feelings, believing it is the will of the Emperor guiding them to His enemies. This, combined with the broad powers of an organisation like the Inquisition, means that few people are safe from scrutiny when it comes to the rooting out of heretical behaviour. Acolytes are taught that no one and nothing should be above their suspicion, which can lead to them becoming extremely paranoid, another "virtue" encouraged by the Inquisition.

#### **Calixian Heresies**

#### **The Umbrian Heresy**

Deep in the Drusus Marches lies the world of Spectoris. An ocean planet, its surface almost completely covered by waves, its inhabitants farm the sea and export their bounty to surrounding planets and systems. Years ago it is recorded that a cult rose on the world of Spectoris, which worshipped the Emperor in His aspect as a mighty sea god, dwelling deep beneath the waters. The cult would sail out to places where the ocean grew deep and throw sacrifices into the sea. As the cult grew in power so too did its practices darken and whispers of human sacrifice and other blood rituals abounded. Eventually the Ecclesiarchy intervened, and though they lost several agents in their investigations, the cult was unmasked. It was revealed that they worshipped a xenos being known as the Umbrian, which lived in the deepest of the world's ocean trenches. After a violent conflict, both above and beneath the waves, the creature, its children and many of its human followers were destroyed. As a precautionary measure, all marine life not essential to food production was purged. Rumours still persist, however, that all of the Umbrian's children were not found and some of the creatures live still in the deep waters of Spectoris, waiting and watching for the time when they shall rise again.

#### **A Halo of Darkness**

The Calixis Sector sits close to the galactic rim, bordered by the Halo Stars. It is said that those who cross the rim seldom return the same. Out in the darkness of the void, beyond the gaze of the God-Emperor, things inhuman and unimaginable are said to dwell. Recently, the Ordos Calixis uncovered an organisation calling itself the "Halo of Darkness" that transported people beyond the rim and returned them somehow "changed". The cult appeared to be made up of a cabal of ship captains, some even holding ranks within the Imperial Navy, which would take hundreds of people out to unknown destinations within the Halo Stars. They would then return these people to their lives, though altered somehow and evidently not "themselves". Fearing some kind of xenos infiltration of the sector, the Inquisition moved quickly and smashed apart the Halo of Darkness. Unfortunately the Inquisitorial agents were unable to discover the cult's destinations within that forbidding area of space. Some within the Ordos say the purge moved too quickly and vital clues were lost, whilst others argue that by moving as quickly as they did a terrible disaster was narrowly averted. Whatever the case, the search for those individuals "touched" by the organisation and the true power behind the cult continues.

#### **Investigation**

Once a target has been identified, the next step is to begin an investigation. In many cases, especially within the ranks of the Inquisition, the gathering of evidence is secondary to identifying guilty parties. Such clues are more to help lead the investigator to his quarry rather than prove anything in particular once he gets there. Because it is vital the heretics be discovered, the most important aspect of many investigations becomes stealth. Quite often, even the hint of Acolytes nosing around sends cultists underground, vanishing into the general populace and becoming practically impossible to find. As a result, the Inquisition especially advocates striking against heretics as soon as possible, even when there is only the most circumstantial of evidence. In the end, any number of innocent deaths is acceptable if it means a true heretic is found and destroyed.

#### **Purging**

Once the heresy has been unmasked the next step is to eradicate it. This can be harder than it seems, as, like weeds, many heretical cults can appear to be destroyed only to spring up once more. The teaching of the Ecclesiarchy and the Inquisition on this matter is clear—the Emperor rewards thoroughness. If there is the slightest suspicion of involvement in the heresy, they must be purged. Sometimes the heresy has consumed an entire hive or continent, and the Ecclesiarchy cannot be so discerning as to single out individuals. At this point, the Ministorum shows no mercy and offers no quarter, leading to the destruction of entire cities or even worlds through military conflict, atomic fire or virus bomb. Better a dead world than one that does not bow to the Emperor.

# The Holy The Holy

<span id="page-206-0"></span>*"Though they did flay her body with their blades, rend her bones to dust with their fists and consume her organs with their hungry maws, they possessed nothing that could touch her faith."*

— Excerpt from the Blessed Suffering of Saint Elana.

The Calixis Sector is full of saints, men and women who have given their lives to the glory of the Emperor. Some are very minor, only revered in a single city or town, while some can be found wherever Imperial rule extends. Large or small, saints form the human face of the Ministorum, giving worshippers something to relate to and aspire toward. Saints are also often associated with certain aspects and particular causes, such as stellar travel or guilt. Some saints are even more specialised, watching out for those that work with ill-tempered Grox for example. This means, regardless of your situation, there is always a saint watching over you and to whom you can offer a prayer of protection. The truly devout take no chances and festoon themselves with the symbols and tokens of many saints. Saints also have a prominent place in Imperial culture beyond their religious connotations. Their names can be found on everything from worlds and stellar craft to streets and children. Often something that is akin to a saint's cause bears their name, such as a warship called the Saint Drusus (of which there are one hundred and thirteen so named to date), so it might embody some of the fierceness of its namesake. Taking all of this into account, saints form an important part of a citizen's life, as prolific and ever-present as the Cult of the Emperor itself. T

#### **Drusus the Warrior**

Without a doubt the greatest of all the saints within the Calixis Sector, Drusus stands at the right hand of the Emperor in the hearts and minds of most Calixian citizenry. From early childhood, millions are taught the tales of the great general Drusus and his relentless armies. They learn of how he brought the light of the Emperor back to the sector and swept away the vile masses of xenos who had taken root. It is because of his efforts that the Calixis Sector exists today. The Ministorum makes sure that no one forgets his deeds and, wherever temples and shrines to the Emperor are raised, so too are statues of this saint. Likewise, few saints can boast a cult as large or powerful as Drusus and none can deny the influence that the cult has over all Calixian affairs.

Though a mighty and cunning warlord, Drusus is best remembered and revered as an honest and courageous warrior. It is this purity of faith in the Emperor and the Imperium that soldiers will pray to before heading into battle. To invoke the name of Drusus is to ask for the righteous might of the Emperor to guide your hand. On some worlds entire regiments of Guardsmen are dedicated to the saint's name, such as the 23rd Drusus Dragoons of Clove, who spend their days in prayer to the saint when they are not battling the enemies of the Imperium. Many combat training facilities have a likeness of the saint above their entrance and cadets are required to ask Drusus for his blessing before they enter.

The greatest shrine to Drusus can be found within the Cathedral of Illumination on Scintilla. This is also the headquarters of his cult, where his followers gather from across the sector to discuss cult business. It is also the place where prospective cultists are brought to pledge their devotion to the saint, often in mass blessings many thousand strong. Within the cult, Drusus is second only to the Emperor and comes even before the leaders of the Ecclesiarchy. Of equal importance to the grand shrine on Scintilla is Maccabeus Quintus, sight of the near death of Drusus during the Angevin Crusade. Then there is Sentinel, an obscure shrine world, located in the Drusus Marches. Exactly why the world is holy to the saint is unclear; thousands make the pilgrimage there, often to die in the shadow of Drusus's monument. It is also important to the cult, and any who would rise to the higher ranks within it must travel to the world and ask the saint's blessing. Due to the dangers involved, reaching the world and returning safely is usually considered as "proof " of the saint's favour.

#### **Vidicus the Forlorn**

Vidicus lived many hundreds of years ago and had a life plagued with misfortune and disaster. According to the tales, he was a Rogue Trader—unusual stock for a saint. He is said to have explored great areas of the sector single-handedly, pushing back its boundaries. During this time, it is said he was a greedy and petty man, who sought only to exploit the worlds he discovered and expand his wealth and power. Like many men in such stories, an unfortunate event taught him the error of his ways and brought him into the light of the Emperor. In Vidicus's case it was the abduction of his daughter by alien pirates. He became driven to find her and scoured the sector in his search. He also turned completely to the worship of the Emperor and beseeched him for His guidance. What Vidicus received, however, was one disaster after another. First, his crew tried to mutiny and he was forced to lure them into a hold and vent them to the void. Then, his ship became lost in the warp and he was almost overcome by madness before he could return to realspace. Later, he was captured by Orks and only escaped by eating his own hands in an effort to impress his captors. The tales of Vidicus's quest for his daughter are long and numerous; however, they have two important morals. The first is that no matter how forlorn the hope that he would ever see his daughter again, he never stopped searching. The second is that no matter what adversities the galaxy threw at him, he never lost faith in guidance of the Emperor. Years after Vidicus had vanished in his quest to find his daughter (whose name has oddly never been recorded), a group of clerics wrote an exhaustive treatise on his journeys and deeds. It was from this that the Ministorum recognised his deeds and devotion to the Emperor and raised him to sainthood. Even today there are few worlds in the Calixis Sector that do not have a tale of Vidicus and the time he visited their world seeking his lost child.

Though he has no cult, Vidicus has many worshippers. Most people have been touched by tragedy at one time or another or have embarked on a risky or foolish course of action. At these times, they look to Saint Vidicus to preserve them and give them hope. Likewise his shrines can be found throughout the sector, often tucked away in the corners of larger cathedrals, littered with small offerings and prayers. Travellers also often pray to him to guide them safely to their destinations and makeshift shrines exist to him on many vessels. The saint's name also appears in many common phrases such as, "a Vidicus hope", meaning something with a very small chance of success, or "following Vidicus", meaning to obsess about something unattainable. Acolytes have also been known to invoke the name of Vidicus in their missions, sometimes scratching prayers to the saint on the inside of their armour. It is often joked (though out of earshot of any Inquisitors) that Vidicus would have made a good Acolyte.

#### **Rybel Gorth the Watcher in the Dark**

Rybel Gorth is unusual among saints because in life he was a psyker. Shunned by the Ecclesiarchy at the time and held in deep suspicion by much of Imperial society, Gorth was seen as a "necessary" second-class citizen. It is written that in his early life he worked aboard a warp-faring vessel, aiding the Navigator and helping to protect its passengers and crew. His story begins, however, during the evacuation of Canopus during the Heresy of Numbers. At this time, the world was being turned to ashes by bitter civil war and a great army of heretics had turned upon the Ecclesiarchy. Formerly a haven for religious learning and scholarly study, Sylor was filled with thousands of prominent and learned members of the Ecclesiarchy. Rybel Gorth's ship was the only one to reach the world before the end and took aboard hundreds of Ministorum officials and scholars before making a hasty retreat into the warp. Tragically, however, the ship became lost in the warp and years dragged by as it searched for escape. During this time, the crew and passengers began to die. Fearing the loss of the wealth of knowledge he had been part of rescuing, Gorth used his powers to draw out and store the minds of those who died, keeping them safe within his own. When the ship finally broke free and found its way to safe harbour, Gorth was half mad with a brain brimming with a hundred minds. Before he died, he transcribed the gathered knowledge of the scholars of Canopus, ensuring its survival. For his sacrifice, the Ecclesiarchy at the time blessed his memory and raised him to sainthood.

Rybel Gorth has few shrines and statues erected in his honour. Even now, centuries after his death, a certain distaste of him exists within the Ministorum. Even the majority of citizens who know of him, see him more as a malevolent presence rather than a source of comfort and guidance. They associate their fears about psykers and the warp with the saint, seeing him as the embodiment of this evil. There are those, however, that do not have their vision clouded by such fears. These are mostly scholars, adepts and, of course, psykers. These people see Gorth for what he was—a powerful psyker who was able to use his gift to hold the warp at bay and keep safe those around him. He has become a protector of those who would deal with the forbidden and the unknown, especially psykers who try and divine secrets from the warp or use it to send messages across the stars. Psykers often say prayers to Rybel Gorth when they use their powers, hoping that he will protect them from the perils of the warp. Scholars

who seek ancient secrets also pray to him lest they unearth or awaken the unnatural. The tale of Rybel Gorth is also often taught to Imperial psykers during their training, impressing upon them the importance of their devotion to the Emperor and the Imperium.

#### **Quivvar Nog of Fedrid**

Few primitives have ever achieved sainthood, though Quivvar Nog is one of the rare exceptions. Hailing from the feral world of Fedrid, he was a warrior of one of the great plains tribes who told stories of long ago, when men were star-walkers. It is said he was present to witness the first failed attempt by the Imperium to recover his world. A group of missionaries came to Fedrid to spread the Emperor's word and bring it back to the fold. No sooner had they made planetfall than they were set upon by the locals and almost wiped out. It was Nog's tribe that gave the survivors shelter and listened to their tales of the Imperium. So inspired was the young warrior, he knelt beneath the stars and swore an oath to the Emperor that he would bring Fedrid back to him. For sixty long years, Nog made war on the tribes of Fedrid in the name of the Emperor, finally as an ancient and scarred old man unifying his people. It was not until two hundred years later that the Imperium returned, prepared to once again turn the wayward tribes of the world to the light of the Emperor. What they found was a world more devout than most, which honoured both the Emperor and his saint—Quivvar Nog. When tales of the primitive that had brought faith to the world reached the ears of the Ecclesiarchy, a delegation was sent to investigate. The results were that Nog was recorded as a hero of the Imperium and made a saint.

Shrines to Quivvar can be found dotted throughout the sector, especially on primitive or feral worlds where the inhabitants identify with him. There has been some dispute over the best way to revere Nog. On civilized worlds, marble or granite statues are built to him depicting the saint as a cleanshaven giant dressed in primitive but well-made armour with strong and handsome features. On primitive worlds, clay or wooden idols made in his likeness show him as a squat ugly man with dirty hide armour and a ragged cloak. It is argued that the former is a fantasy concocted by the Ministorum to make him more palatable to more civilized citizens, but one that ultimately betrays the saint's memory. This has lead to the unpleasant practice of befouling statues and shrines that promote this "false" image by those who claim to honour the "true" Nog. In either case, Nog enjoys a broad following as the saint of perseverance and final victory through faith. He is often revered by those with long, thankless tasks ahead of them. Nog is also associated with those too stubborn or too stupid to give up, an aspect many Acolytes can readily relate to.

#### **Elana the Unshaken**

A missionary, Elana made it her lifelong goal to bring the word of the Emperor to the dark places of the Imperium. In her time, she travelled far and wide across the sector, often choosing planets noted for their unruly populations or deadly indigenous life. It is written that she bore a <span id="page-208-0"></span>scar for each world she visited. From the swamps of Ichovor, where she suffered a disfiguring filth-fly bite, to the wilderness of Dusk, where she was savaged by predators, she stoically accepted these "scars" as part of her service the Emperor. More than once, Elana was captured by natives to be maimed or tortured in the name of heathen gods. In all such stories, however, despite the horrors inflicted upon her, she never faltered in her faith. In the end, after travelling to scores of worlds, Elana was captured by a foul Daemon-worshipping cult on a remote, unnamed feral world. The natives tied her up and threw her into their master's cave as an offering. Over the next month the Daemon tired to break her faith. Each day it would come and devour some of her flesh and offer her release. Each day she would refuse. Eventually the Daemon consumed her completely because she would not turn from the light of the Emperor. Elana had a final vengeance, however, as, in eating her flesh and spirit, the Daemon ingested that part of the Emperor that resided within her. The Daemon died screaming as the holy light burned its essence away and freed Elana to her final reward. Clerics like telling this story to prove that faith in the Emperor can overcome anything.

Elana is a much loved and widely accepted saint within the Calixis Sector, and shrines to her can be found on many worlds. This is no doubt because she embodies many of the most desirable qualities in revering the Emperor, namely duty and devotion above personal safety. It might also be because hearing even a little of the saint's suffering can make someone feel infinitely better about their own woes. Those that care for the sick commonly invoke the name of the saint in their work. They preach that Elana watches over all those who suffer in the Emperor's name but who do not lose faith. In some places this line of reason has led to self-flagellation to honour the saint, though the more mainstream elements of the Ecclesiarchy agree that this is probably misguided. Acolytes may find solace in the worship of Elana when they suffer grievous wounds, praying to her to remind them that all that they do, they do for the glory of the Emperor.

*"Behold! A fragment from the cloak of Saint Quivvar, still stained with his holy blood! For such a holy sir as yourself, I would not ask more than the pittance of one hundred Thrones, lest the Emperor Himself smite me where I stand for my greed."* — Final words of Fenex Plorb, Purveyor of Relics and Religious Paraphernalia.

Relics, tokens and charms are much sought after and prized items within the Imperium. In a place where the favour of the Emperor and the blessing of His saints can mean the difference between salvation and damnation, people are eager to secure for themselves the best spiritual protection available. This typically means owning and carrying some kind of charm. These can take many forms, from simple R

corpse hair charms (possibly harvested from a "lucky" relative) to rare and wondrous "true" relics of the saints themselves. The authenticity of such items is of course up to the GM, as for every true relic, countless fakes and copies exist.

#### **Blessed Bolt Casing**

Blessed bolt casings are common relics favoured by warriors and soldiers. Traditionally such casings come from the time of Drusus, used in the conquest of the sector. It is thought that any bolt casing used by a true-hearted warrior of the God-Emperor makes for a powerful charm. Blessed bolt casings are said to ward against the attentions of aliens and other foul creatures from the void. It is even said that presenting such a creature with the casing will strike fear into them and they will be unable look directly upon it. To attest to a casing's holiness they often come with inscriptions engraved into the metal. These usually tell the tale of the casing—who fired it, where and when, and what it killed. The more auspicious the individual who used it and the greater the foe they slew, the greater the shell's blessing. Some rare casings have been used more than once and have a detailed history scribed onto their shells telling of battles, heroes and confirmed kills.

#### **Bones of the First**

When Drusus came to the Calixis Sector, he arrived at the head of an army many millions strong. These men and women fought and died at his side in the saint's battles of conquest and liberation and were blessed for their service. The bones of these "first warriors" can still be found in reliquaries and shrines throughout the sector, often lending their names to towns and provinces where they settled after the conquest. It is said that they still hold the courage which Drusus instilled in them in life, and carrying a bone of one of the "first" is enough to steel a man before battle and calm the fearful with a touch. Whatever the case, bones of the first are among some of the most common relics to be found for sale within the sector. The fact that there were millions of dead makes it hard to disprove their authenticity.

#### **Drusian Tomb Shard**

The grand tomb of Drusus can be found within the Cathedral of Illumination on Scintilla. Of course there are countless lesser tombs scattered across the sector. All are said to hold a portion of the saint's blessing and to touch a tomb to Drusus is considered very favourable. More favourable still is to possess a part of one of these tombs, leading to a thriving trade in Drusian tomb shards. These are small fragments of stone, allegedly chipped-off one of the saint's tombs. The Ministorum outwardly frowns on the practices of defacing tombs, though it makes a small fortune each year in selling them. Where all the shards come from is a mystery and anyone who has seen the grand tomb on Scintilla will attest that it certainly looks "unsullied". Likewise, many other Drusian tombs are constantly guarded to prevent such vandalism. Nevertheless, the market in tomb shards continues to prove very popular with the faithful.

#### **Rags of Nog**

Saint Quivvar Nog is often depicted as wearing a long tattered cloak that swirls heroically around his shoulders. In many illuminations of his deeds, he uses the cloak to soak up the blood of the faithful, as well as, that of his own wounds. Whether or not Nog ever wore a cloak, thousands of fragments of cloth, stained and ancient, can be found in the hands of those that claim they come from the blessed saint himself. These fragments are purported to do miraculous things, ranging from protecting the bearer from wounds and disease, to making them more fertile or granting them superhuman endurance. Many missionaries also carry these pieces of cloth on their travels, believing that whatever powers it possesses, the determination and stubbornness of Nog resides within the rag and can aid them in their holy duty to the God-Emperor.

# <span id="page-210-0"></span>Paths of Faith Paths of Faith

*"To walk the path of the saints is to look with their eyes and tread with their feet. You will never be as close to the beloved of the Emperor than you are when you don the pilgrim's mantle."* — Esah Gimlas, Sister of the Void.

E very year countless thousands of devout individuals embark on pilgrimages across the sector. Such journeys allow a person to become closer to the God-Emperor and, in theory, gain His eternal blessing. What a pilgrim hopes to gain from such a blessing is often a very personal thing. Some seek the status and honour within the Ecclesiarchy that walking the path of the pilgrim can bring, while others feel they must don the pilgrim's robe to seek absolution. Whatever the reason, those who become pilgrims gain a special status among the citizens of the Imperium: they are allowed to travel along the differing pilgrims paths, travelling to places sanctioned by the Ministorum. They are also permitted passage on many of the Imperium's vessels and many captains consider that having pilgrims on board brings good luck to their voyage. However, there is a price to pay for this special treatment. The Ecclesiarchy view a pilgrim's journey as a sacred thing and those that undertake to follow the path of the saints must first be approved and tested by the Ecclesiarchy. Even then, to abandon a pilgrimage or bring shame to the pilgrim's mantle is a grave offence that is dealt with swiftly and harshly. E

Another important aspect of the many pilgrim trails that criss-cross the sector is the creation of wealth. Where there are pilgrims so too can be found hundreds of industries to support them. These can range from the essential (boarding houses and guides), to the esoteric (spiritual cleansers and sintakers). Many establishments offer special rates for pilgrims, though as pilgrims are almost always new to an area, it is hard to tell if such rates are better or worse than normal. Those that complete a pilgrimage gain the right to wear badges or seals to mark them as an ex-pilgrim. Within the Ministorum, such honours are highly prized and are a symbol of an individual's faith and devotion to the God-Emperor. In fact, to hold office in many cults and parts of the Ministorum, having completed a pilgrimage is a requirement.

While there are scores of pilgrimages that touch almost every world within the sector, only a few are frequently travelled. Two of these more well-known pilgrimages are the Footsteps of Drusus and the Journey of the Hives.

#### **The Footsteps of Drusus**

Though no exact record of Drusus's campaign in the Calixis Sector exist that tell of everywhere he went and all of what he did, there are many worlds that have become sacred to his memory. A path between these worlds, known as the "Footsteps of Drusus", has long been established and a constant stream of pilgrims can be found "walking" it at any one time. It begins in the Golgenna Reach on the planet Scintilla. Each year, prospective pilgrims gather before the gates of the Cathedral of Illumination and members of the Ministorum move among them providing blessing of the saint and giving the pilgrims permission to being their journey. While such permission is mostly symbolic, there have been rare instances where a pilgrim has been denied the right to walk the footsteps of Drusus. This is usually as a result of some past crime that the Ministorum feels would stain the memory of Drusus. From here, the pilgrims march to the spaceport at Hive Tarsus. After ascending into orbit, pilgrims make a circuit of the core worlds of the Golgenna Reach—Sepheris Secundus, the Lathes and Iocanthos. On each of these planets, they travel to the places where Drusus is said to have made his landings and spend days in prayer. From the Golgenna Reach the pilgrimage then spirals out into the Drusus Marches where the journey becomes more dangerous, visiting Endrite and Tygress V. Pilgrims face real peril from both natives and local flora and fauna. The penultimate step sees the pilgrims descend to the dry surface of Maccabeus Quintus to see the shrines built where the man died and the legend of the saint began. Finally, the pilgrimage comes to its end on the world of Sentinel. Many of those who make it to the shrine world do not return. Exhausted by their travels, and without funds, they wander into the wastes to die and at last be at one with their saint.

#### **Journey of the Hives**

The ancient hives of Scintilla are a well-known wonder of the Calixis Sector, shining forth as a beacon of mankind's mastery over his domain. They are also seen as a sacred legacy of both the God-Emperor and his saint Drusus. Each year, pilgrims undertake a pilgrimage on Scintilla known as the "Journey of the Hives". At each of the hives the pilgrims visit a series of shrines and other holy places, spending days in prayer. Traditionally, the pilgrimage should take no more than one planetary cycle to complete. While this may seem an easy task, it is made infinitely harder by the fact that pilgrims must complete their journey on foot.

The trek begins at the base of Hive Sibellus, located on the northern landmass of Scintilla. Pilgrims gather in the last light of the last day of the year where they receive the blessing of the Ecclesiarchy before heading out into the dark. The first leg of their journey takes them to the sulphurous volcanic regions of the continent and the site of Gunmetal City. Entry to the city can be difficult and there are numerous gangs that prey on the pilgrims. For many, the base of the great volcanoes is as far as they get.

After resupplying and resting within Gunmetal City, the pilgrimage continues, this time to wondrous Ambulon. To reach the ever-moving hive, pilgrims must try and discern where it will pass and travel to a location that places themselves in its path. This can take weeks if not longer to complete, and those that are successful may well lose their nerve when they see the massive mechanical hive bearing down upon them. To board the hive, the pilgrims must be pulled up by ropes thrown down from its belly. It is an impressive site to behold as hundreds of men and women grasp at trailing ropes and attempt to hang on while they are drawn up. In fact, hundreds often turn out just to see if any fall to their deaths or are caught in the grinding gears of Ambulon's legs. They are seldom disappointed.

After a brief time in Ambulon, the pilgrims then begin the final leg of their journey. Now they travel south, through the jungles and deserts of the planet's equator. They pass Hive Ten-ebra, though do not enter, and then press on to Hive Tarsus. Here the journey ends at the gates of the Cathedral of Illumination, and those that have made it are given the Emperor's Blessing.

<span id="page-211-0"></span># Life as an Acolyte

**[An](#page-212-0) [Acolyte's Place](#page-212-0) • [The Web](#page-215-0) of [Shadows](#page-215-0) • [Contacts](#page-218-0) • [Expanded](#page-224-0) [Skills](#page-224-0) • [Crafting](#page-245-0) Rules**

### <span id="page-212-0"></span>Chapter IX: Life as an Acolyte Chapter IX: Life as an Acolyte

*"I was born a gunsmith's scraper and when I was strong enough to carry a lasgun I joined the Guard. I made it all the way to sergeant before he found me. Now I work for the master, and I reckon that's as far as my story goes."*

— Wyree Kobass, Acolyte.

Within the Imperium of Man equality is something that seldom exists beyond one's peers and rare are those that can call themselves truly free, for the greater part of humanity is born into a galactic society of classes, castes and fealty. It is a society that demands loyalty to the Emperor and service to the Imperium. Just as only the tiniest fraction of mankind will ever tread the stars, so too will an equally small minority every rise above their station. Acolytes are among those few exceptions. Of all the agencies of the Throne, the Inquisition is arguably the one with the greatest freedom and the broadest operational mandate. Acolytes can enjoy this freedom as an extension of their service to their Inquisitor, though it comes at a price. Those that become Acolytes forever leave behind their previous lives; accepting that once they join the ranks of the Inquisition, their lives are no longer their own. W

*"A servant is only as powerful as the master he serves."* — Ancient Imperial Proverb.

As members of the Emperor's Holy Inquisition, Acolytes exist outside the bulk of Imperial society. They enjoy the benefits and disadvantages as a result of this. However, the factor that defines their existence more than any other is the person they work for and the favours he can grant them. A skilled and experienced Acolyte will become an indispensable tool in the hands of his Inquisitor. More than this, he will become privy to his master's secrets (probably participating in the creation and covering-up of more than a few of them). This places a bond of trust between Acolyte and Inquisitor, one that a dedicated Acolyte can cultivate and secure. Over time, Acolytes may rise high in their Inquisitor's retinue, becoming part of his personal cadre and travelling with him on the most important of missions. An Acolyte may even impress his master so much that he is granted a title within the Inquisition, perhaps becoming an Interrogator with right to bear the Rosette. After a time, this may even lead to the Acolyte becoming a full Inquisitor in his own right and graduating from his master's shadow to purse his own agenda. A

Most Acolytes, of course, never become more than valued tools and many have little desire to be more than this. While not everyone is fit to be an Inquisitor, anyone can amass

<span id="page-213-0"></span>power and influence, especially in the eyes of their master. Long serving Acolytes are often afforded special privileges and rights by their master as reward for their loyal service. Such boons, however, do not come easily and any gift granted by an Inquisitor is usually earned in blood and toil.

#### **The Secret War** The Secret War

Making a name for yourself and rising through the ranks of the Inquisition is no easy task. The Inquisition is like no other organisation within the Imperium. This is in part to allow it greater freedom to do its work, but also because of the rare and independent kinds of individuals it attracts. Therefore an Acolyte, as an individual in the service of an individual, seeks the favour of a person not an organisation. If an Acolyte wants to rise in the eyes of the Inquisition, he must gain the notice of his Inquisitor. The ambitious servant is rarely alone in this desire for recognition and must compete with scores of his master's other servants (some of whom he may work closely with) for his attention.

Just as Acolytes compete with each other, so too do Inquisitors. This can lead to a far more serious and altogether deadlier kind of competition where more than mere lives are at stake. Inevitably this rivalry affects the Acolytes as they become drawn into their master's conflicts. There is so much infighting within the Inquisition that, at times, much of its resources can become tied up in these internal struggles. Therefore it may become very difficult for an Acolyte to be sure of the foe he is fighting and the righteousness of his cause; he can only trust that the commands of his master are pure in the eyes of the God-Emperor.

#### **Gaining Favour**

Gaining favour within the Inquisition is all about doing the Emperor's work (or at least being seen to do His work). The will of the Emperor is the one thing that no loyal member of the Imperium can refute or disregard. Within the Ordos Calixis there is an intricate system whereby the Inquisitor Lord and his most trusted Inquisitors measure the value of an Imperial servant's contribution to the Imperium. For most Inquisitors, however, this comes down to who they know and the deeds they profess to have achieved. By extension, this is the same yardstick that an Acolyte uses to gain favour with his master. What is his worth? What has he done? And who thinks highly of him?

GMs should encourage their players to think about how their character's actions will influence their standing with their Inquisitor. Beyond merely letting the players know whether they have succeeded or failed in their missions, GMs can drop hints about actions that have especially pleased their master. This is usually something that comes to the Inquisitor's attention—possibly the Acolyte has gone out of his way to further the goals of his master. It could include additional information gathering (taking the chance to poke around when raiding an Imperial database), apprehending criminals and filling bounties (should the Acolyte cross paths with a wanted individual), or anything that shows initiative or dedication to the Inquisition's cause (turning in supposed loyal servants of the Emperor is also looked favourably on).

As with most things, what you can prove is more important that what actually happened. Creative Acolytes can always try and give their actions a positive spin. Even when dealing with an organisation like the Inquisition, which in theory is all about finding truth, some imaginative relating of events can get a character a long way. Apart from getting each player to relate their version of events to the GM (playing their Inquisitor), a method that allows the players to embellish their actions (or downplay their mistakes) is to ask them to write a report of the mission. It doesn't need to be long, just enough to touch on the main points of the mission and how it concluded. This allows the players to really think about what they are going to tell their Inquisitor and also gives the GM a record of each of the Acolytes' missions. GMs can also keep the reports as evidence for later should any of the Acolytes' actions ever be called into question.

#### **First Among Equals**

Like any group, a band of Acolytes usually has a leader and in most Inquisitorial retinues this individual is known as the "Prime". Most Inquisitors have a vast network of operatives branching out from them, becoming more and more scattered the further they get from their master. To organise and control each of these branches, and the cells of operatives they support, Primes are put in place, acting as links and junction points leading back to the master. The Prime acts as both a link to the Inquisitor (sometimes though other Primes), as well as a method of surreptitiously reporting on the others in their group.

A good Prime is rewarded with more power, sometimes getting to see a little more of the vast latticework that is his master's organisation and perhaps even being entrusted with another group of Acolytes somewhere further down the chain. Most Inquisitors, though, move their Primes about or pass the mantle of Prime around within a cadre of Acolytes. This is partly to get a better picture of those that work for him and partly so that no one individual in his organisation can gather too much power without his knowledge. As a result, bearing the mark of the Prime can be a mixed blessing, and sometimes a group of especially close Acolytes will share the responsibility, creating their own internal hierarchy despite the wishes of their master. Far from angering most Inquisitors, they appreciate such independence in their servants.

#### **First Among Inquisitors**

The pecking order that exists between Inquisitors is far less formalised than the idea of Primes. Each a powerful, independent individual in their own right, they naturally do not like being told what to do by others. It is worth remembering that most Inquisitor's were once Acolytes and they take with them much of their former master's reputation when they enter the office. This can lead to complicated and convoluted lines of fealty within the Inquisition, much as exists among an individual Inquisitor's Acolytes, with lines of masters and servants stretching back across the centuries. Quite often, as a result of rejuvenate treatments, an Inquisitor may still be in contact with their former master and possibly their master's master, or even their master's master's master, and so on…

#### **Wielding the Rosette**

The greatest gift an Inquisitor can grant an Acolyte is the right to wield the Inquisitorial Rosette in his name. For much of an Acolyte's work he will never identify himself as a member of the Inquisition and even when he does, it is usually at the behest of his master. Much rarer are the times when the Acolyte uses the raw power of the Inquisition to get the job done, for example commandeering vessels or pressing soldiers into service.

A Rosette is more than a mere medallion of precious metals bearing the mark of the Inquisition (the Inquisitorial "I"), notated in the Calixis Sector by the mark of the Ordo Calixis (the Chalice). Each one is a sophisticated means of identification specifically keyed to an individual Inquisitor. "Fooling" a Rosette is no easy feat as a complex system of biorecognition and DNA scanning technology ensures that it only functions in the hands of its rightful owner, or those who are deemed worthy of its use. For an Acolyte to be granted a copy of their master's Rosette (and the sanctioning to use it), shows great trust on the part of the Inquisitor and as such, it is a rare occurrence. Only when an Acolyte ascends to the station of Interrogator is he usually granted this honour.

Other tokens of authority, such as a Legate Investigator's Sigil of Question or a Excoriator's gilded bolt shell, are sometimes granted by the Acolyte's Inquisitor, though usually only for the execution of specific tasks. Such items are more commonly given, while the Rosette is reserved for those who have earnt the faith of their Inquisitor. After all, when an Acolyte uses the Rosette his actions are not his alone, ultimately it is their Inquisitor who must answer for abuses of power. In such cases, the Inquisitor may well survive the outcome, unlike the unfortunate Acolyte.

The status of an Inquisitor is a result of his accomplishments and the perception of his peers. Those that have laid great piles of heads at the Emperor's feet (either figuratively or literally) earn for themselves great rights within the Ordos Calixis. Likewise, those that earn a reputation, either good or bad, also win high acclaim. Quite often an Acolyte might find himself in the line of fire (sometime literally) because of his Inquisitor's relationship with his peers. Warbands of rival Inquisitors especially can come to blows over a myriad of things, most often a difference of opinion on how best to serve the Emperor's will. Such is the nature of an Inquisitor's work that these kinds of struggles are accepted and sometimes even condoned by higher powers. It is said that Lord Inquisitor Caidin likes a degree of rivalry between his subjects, all the better to ensure that they are working at their best. All an Acolyte needs to know, however, is that when he swears to serve an Inquisitor, he accepts the enemies and rivals of his master without question.

Beyond merely risking life and limb in such conflicts, Acolytes can also sometimes find themselves sought out for service by rival Inquisitors. In the Calixis Sector at any one time there are scores of Inquisitors at work and below them, hundreds of Acolytes. As a result, it is not uncommon for these Inquisitorial servants to brush shoulders in their tasks, especially if they happen to be investigating the same thing. This gives some Inquisitors the chance to win over new recruits and, in such circumstances, Acolytes are sometimes deployed with the specific task of "headhunting". An Acolyte that does trade masters, however, is in for a rocky road; even if they should prove themselves competent and loyal to their new master, they will always be tarnished by their betrayal.

This can, in turn, lead to Acolytes working for more than one Inquisitor; a not altogether uncommon occurrence. This is a dangerous path to tread and should either of the Inquisitors become aware of the Acolyte serving two masters, the best he can hope for is a short-lived career as a double agent or informer. When an Acolyte loses the trust of his Inquisitor, he does not remain an Acolyte long; in fact, he is fortunate if he remains as anything.

### <span id="page-215-0"></span>The Web of Shadows The We b of Shadows

*"Most Inquisitors never truly know how many people work for them. Indeed, many of those that do never know that they work for an Inquisitor."*

— Vi Dorapps, Master of Names.

By its nature the Inquisition is an organisation that sprawls across sectors, worlds and social strata. At any one time, an individual Inquisitor may have agents scattered across a sector. Just as all the resources of the Imperium are at an Inquisitor's disposal, so too are its citizens. This is a resource that Inquisitors make good use of. After all, this is where they find their Acolytes. As they rise in their master's organisation, Acolytes find themselves more and more relying on their own initiative and ability to use the people at hand to get the job the done—normally this means manipulating and recruiting the people around them. To effectively make use of this massive resource, Acolytes must master two of the oldest and most useful tactics employed by their masters—secret identities and maintaining a "healthy" network of contacts. B

Acolytes will not often use their own identities, especially when performing investigations. While anyone can of course come up with a false name on the fly, clever Acolytes usually have a set of prepared identities ready to use. Likewise, cultivating a good contact can make an Acolyte's life infinitely easier. It is much better to have someone on the inside during an investigation than having to trawl the local drinking holes in the hope of finding some clues.

Presented here you will find a set of guidelines for creating alter egos and developing contacts for your Acolyte. These rules can be used to enhance the capabilities of your character, allowing him to better access secret information, travel unnoticed or obtain rare equipment. Power-hungry Acolytes can also make good use of these tactics in order to build their own empires of informers and spies, perhaps preparing for the time when they themselves might be

granted the Rosette. In addition to these obvious game advantages, both secret identities and contacts can be used as roleplaying tools, adding depth and substance to your PC. An Acolyte's contacts should be much more that a set of bonuses to dice rolls, rather they should develop into fully fledged NPCs during the course of play, perhaps even building emotional and personal ties to the PC.

*"Greetings, my name is Lord Greor, First Master of the Ralkir Fleet, High Councilman of the House Vigilant and Commander of the Dark Reproach… no, the other Lord Greor."*

— Lord Greor.

Acolytes are deliberately chosen by their Inquisitors rather than assigned. An Acolyte could be anyone from anywhere within the Imperium. Often an Acolyte is chosen for his anonymity within Imperial society, allowing him to move freely from one place to another and go where more obvious authorities would arouse too much suspicion. To this end, Acolytes, during the course of their careers, find themselves often posing as a variety of people and professions in their efforts to root out heresy and track down traitors. This is where secret identities come in extremely handy. A

#### **What is an Alter Ego?** What is an Alter Ego?

An alter ego is simply another name and persona you employ to conceal your true intentions and to protect yourself from your enemies. You can have several alternate identities, some almost as detailed as your real identity, some merely a different name and set of credentials. Such false personas are a staple of most Acolyte's work, especially when conducting investigations, but also when dealing with contacts and even other members of the Inquisition. In essence, an alter ego becomes another character for you to play, a set of mannerisms and quirks used by your PC to change their personality.

#### **Plot Hooks**

One of the key benefits of creating and using both secret identities and contacts is that they make excellent plot hooks for the GM. Contacts make excellent NPCs, since the Acolyte already knows them and presumably has a vested interest in keeping them alive. Thus if an adventure calls for the Acolytes to rush to the aid of someone or search for a missing person, one of the Acolyte's contacts makes an obvious choice. By that same token, contacts can be used to get information to the PCs that they would otherwise have no way of knowing. This can be very useful in an adventure if, for some reason, the Acolytes miss a vital clue or set off in the wrong direction. However, this "trick" should be used sparingly as having the PCs contacts coming to their "rescue" can be unsatisfying for most groups and may stretch the players' belief in the game-story too far.

Secret identities can also provide plenty of fun for GMs. The classic example of this is that they can be used to create cases of mistaken identity. Perhaps an Acolyte's false persona bears an uncanny resemblance to someone else and he suddenly finds himself hunted for crimes he did not commit. Worse still, an Acolyte may find that his enemies have learned of one or more of his secret identities and are secretly manipulating him, leading to the unsettling situation where the player discovers that his "other" self has been doing things and travelling to places without his knowledge! A particularly bizarre (but nevertheless intriguing) use of this device is to have the Acolytes effectively investigating himself. Someone might use his identity to commit a crime; though only through gathering clues does the Acolyte discover that the person he is looking for is in fact someone he has "created".

#### **Creating Alter Egos** Creating Alter Egos

The first step in constructing an alter ego is to decide how he or she differs from your character. Obviously, your new persona will have things in common with the old, such as (usually) basic appearance and gender. However, there should be some fundamental differences. In addition, you need to decide what purpose your alter ego serves, as they can be used for a myriad of things from simple misdirection to deep infiltration. When creating an alter ego you should try and address each of the following questions:

#### <span id="page-216-0"></span>**Why do you need an Alter Ego?**

For what purpose does your Acolyte require a false identity? Is it simply something to hide the fact you work for the Inquisition? If this is the case, it is probably not too far removed from your own profession (i.e. a Guardsman claiming to be a mercenary). Alternatively, you might want to create an identity for a specific task, such as infiltrating a cult or gaining access to restricted Imperial authorities such as the Adeptus Arbites or the Ministorum. Some identities might even be more specific than that, designed for a particular mission, such as framing or "befriending" someone.

#### **Who is your Alter Ego?**

You'll need a name for your alter ego. A name carries a lot of weight; it evokes expectations, beliefs and goes a long way towards making your new identity believable. For instance, if you wanted to create a noble identity you might choose a particularly regal sounding name, like Augustus Voght. You might then add some kind of title or honorific, like Patriarch or Hierarch. Of course, at its most basic, any name that sounds like it would fit the person you are trying to become should do.

#### **How does the Alter Ego differ from you?**

With the name in place, you should decide on what ways the alter ego differs from your PCs true identity. Does your alter ego walk with a limp, wear a green wig or end every sentence with "…by the grace of the Emperor"? Such minor details add "character" to this new identity, whilst also providing you with a few props when taking on the role of this character.

#### **Can the Alter Ego be widely used?**

Is this an identity that can only be used once or numerous times? Often, the more detailed the persona, the more restricted it becomes. For instance, if you were posing as a member of the Plumes in the city of Olrankan on the world of Acreage, that identity is not likely to be of much use anywhere else (though it would be very useful in Olrankan). However, if you were to pose as a missionary or pilgrim, you could doubtless use your alter ego anywhere in the sector, but it would naturally not afford you much access to local authorities. For this reason, Acolytes often have several sets of identities, some broad and some specific.

#### **How detailed is the Alter Ego?**

Is it just a name? Do you have identity papers, records and other false methods of proving who you are? Creating a new name and history should be quite easy. After all, this is in essence a set of prepared lies that the Acolyte has on hand to fool others and, unless they are really looking, these are all you need. If someone digs deeper and runs any kind of security check, the identity is going to need proof to back itself up. Usually this is some kind of local ID endorsed by whatever passes for the planetary government, though on more advanced or sophisticated worlds, it can include detailed bio-scans or gene-printing which can be considerably harder to fool.
