*"The fires through which we pass in this life are but the light of the Emperor's forge. Our triumphs and tragedies are the heat by which we are tempered into weapons fit for his service."* 
— Commissar Captain Jourian Al'Eutar, Gunmetallicus 41st.

The following section details a variety of optional Background Packages for your characters. These backgrounds offer your Acolytes an extra level of detail by filling in more of their past and experiences before joining the Inquisition; providing your character with a "story" of their own. Each presents some "hooks" to help you form a basis for their personality, beliefs and goals, not to mention the reason why they have come to the attention of the Holy Ordos.

Depending on your character's Career, the Background Package may take the form of a particular academic school you attended, a terrible event you were caught up in, a war you fought, a sect you belonged to, or even a case you investigated. Regardless, this event marks a pivotal moment in your character's development.

As well as providing your character with a history, each Background Package also comes with an effect, in terms of particular Skills, Talents or Traits (some of them quite unique) for your character to have developed as a result of your past. In many cases, these packages also feature some fairly serious drawbacks either in the shape of some deficiency of ability, or perhaps even in terms of Insanity or Corruption Points; the 41st Millennium is a dark place after all, and all knowledge has its price.
## **Using Background Packages** 

Background Packages provide a suite of Characteristic adjustments, Skills, Talents, and, in some cases, Traits. Any adjustments to a character by selecting a Background Package does not count as an Advance for the purpose of increasing in rank, nor do increases or reductions count toward the improvement of a Characteristics through the Acolyte's Career Path Characteristic Advances.

To select a Background Package, the Acolyte must meet its requirements. Some packages are restricted to one Career Path, while others are available when creating characters from several different Career Paths. Many Background Packages also include a Home World or origin requirement, which must also be met. Finally, Background Packages all have an xp cost, which must be paid from the character’s starting experience during character creation. The price covers the whole Background Package; players can’t spend less for parts of it. It’s all or nothing. Likewise, players may find that packages grant Talents not otherwise available due to Characteristic restrictions. The Acolyte does not have to meet the requirements of any listed Talent gained from the package, since the benefits are undoubtedly hard earned!

Players may only acquire a Background Package at the start of character creation. A player cannot go back and select a package later in your character’s career, nor can he ever have more than one package. Background Packages are entirely optional and a player must get his GM’s permission before selecting one for his character.
##### Example
*Emma has rolled up an Imperial World Adept character and wants to take a Background Package so that she can make her character fit in with the Radical campaign that her GM is running. She looks up those available to her career and settles on Thy Name I Keep. Having received the go-ahead from her GM, she applies the package effects to her character. She adds the additional Skills and Talents listed under effects to her character sheet and rolls 1d5+5 Corruption Points and 1d10 Insanity Points from knowing a part of a daemon’s true name. She also marks off 400 xp (the package’s cost) from her starting xp and goes on to spend the rest of the starting xp given by the GM.*

Players can, of course, vary the ‘story’ within the package to suit their own tastes and ideas—and indeed they are encouraged to do so—so long as the effects and cost are the same of those listed. It’s also recommended that no two player characters in a group use the same package for the sake of variety, unless of course the group’s GM has a fiendish plan in mind….
## **General: A Cut Above The Rest**
The following Background Packages may be used with most or all Career Paths. Any specific exclusions or limitations will be indicated in the Background Package's entry.
#### **Cold Trader**
**Career:** Any except Soroitas
**Cost:** 200 xp
**Requirements:** Void Born Home World

Criminal merchants have lives that are filled with danger and threat. Despite the many enforcers they have bribed—or thugs they have standing guard, the Emperor’s Law is always vigilant. To work for the Cold Trade is much worse, as to deal in xenos artefacts can easily draw attention from members of the Calixian Ordo Xenos. It also requires knowledge of a variety of areas forbidden by most temporal authorities in the Imperium of Mankind. A dealer in illegal weapons might only need to be familiar with the workings of bolt shells or plasma venting; a Cold Trader, however, is dealing in alien weapons and needs intimate details on strange toxins, bizarre ammunition, and even hideous xenos physiology. Some clever traders specialise in forging their own xenos artefacts, for there are very few who could tell the difference.

Cold Traders sometimes enter the lifestyle by accident, often unknowingly acquiring a xenos device and deciding to look for more once they count the enormous profits made on the deal. Other merchants might be pressured into it from powerful nobles demanding they find such products or else face their official wrath. A few deal in such hazardous materials directly from Eldar Corsairs, spreading them across the sector in exchange for all matters of payment, some of which is best left unmentioned. It is very rare indeed that contact with such works, even something
as seemingly innocuous as a swath of glistening fabric or a lumpen idol, will result in the betterment of mankind. Behind every xenos device lies a possible threat to the Imperium.
##### **Effects**
Apply all of the following to your character:

* **Been Around A Few Times:** While not necessarily any more skilful than most smugglers, the nature of a Cold Trader's work inevitably forces you into trying your hands at certain esoteric efforts with alarming frequency. You treat Forbidden Lore (Xenos) and Tech-Use as Basic Skills, and gain the Speak Language (Xenos—Pick One) Skill.
* **Traders' Kit:** Sometimes you may need to subdue an alien creature to relieve it of its possessions, assuming, of course, your goal wasn't to actually capture the xeno itself for a client with especially deranged interests. You begin play with a Needle Rifle with 2 reloads, a Web Pistol with 2 reloads, and the relevant Exotic Weapon Training Talent for both.
#### **Convert**
**Career:** Any except Soroitas or Tech-Priest
**Cost:** 300 xp
**Requirements:** Feral World Home World (or similar upbringing) only

The Imperial Creed is a rabidly evangelical one, which loudly professes its divine mission to spread across the universe, annihilating all other faiths. Yet the Imperium, for all its might, does not  dominate every corner of the Galaxy. There are many independent worlds and human-controlled empires where older faiths yet prevail. Some are relics of pre-Imperial religions, perhaps even from old Terra, while others are local inventions or the works of subtle and devious xenos who use humanity’s drive to spirituality against it.

Such heathen worlds are targeted by the righteous missionaries of the Missionarus Galaxia, experienced Imperial servants who voyage alone to study the local heretical faiths in order to either implant coded long-term prophesies into the local myth cycle, or, where possible, to overthrow the preeminent religion through proselytism or inciting outright violence. Such is the faith, fervour and charisma of these men and women that they are often able to sway even the most dedicated followers of the rival religion to their cause. Many a dread Priest-King of a heathen world has been rudely awoken by the charge of a vast army of converts headed by a pious veteran of the Missionarus Galaxia.

Those who join the Imperial fold (save those who have been clearly corrupted by the work of the Ruinous Powers) are embraced by the Ecclesiarchy, even though their religious instruction is often fragmentary and distorted. Why should the Ministorum reject the devotions, however misguided, of any convert willing to lay his life down for the Emperor?
##### **Effects**
Apply all of the following to your character:

* **Former Heathen:** As a convert to the Imperial Creed, your faith is strong but the details of its more intricate proclivities are somewhat confusing to you, as you were converted rapidly under difficult circumstances. You gain the Common Lore (Imperial Creed) Skill, but if you ever make a Test with this skill and roll with more than two degrees of failure, you have fundamentally mistaken some important details of the Imperial Creed, and the GM must determine the most socially embarrassing or perilous outcome of this misunderstanding. You retain this tendency even as you improve this skill.
* **Rough and Ready Faith:** You have travelled from a far frontier world or some other such benighted place where the Imperial Creed is only newly established to the blessed realms of the God-Emperor. You have practice surviving in many environments, and have likely encountered things that would make the average hiver flee in terror. You gain the Survival Skill and the Unshakeable Faith Talent.
#### **Daemon Vanquisher**
**Career:** Any
**Cost:** 300 xp

When the Emperor calls, anyone who can hear it must answer. Few men or women have defeated a daemon in combat, and the Inquisition (especially the Ordo Malleus) spends considerable effort recruiting these invaluable soldiers to their cause. Whether it was in a one-on-one confrontation or with a group (such as a platoon of Imperial Guardsmen), the character has defeated one of the foul denizens of the Warp. It is clear to all those who have heard the tale that the character is blessed by the Emperor for his bravery in the face of such a singular horror.
##### **Effects**
Apply all of the following to your character:

* **Know Thy Foe:** Either of your own volition, or at the direction of your masters, you have studied various tightly-controlled manuscripts and data-stacks pertaining to the nature of the foul denizens of the warp, so as to better prepare yourself the next time you must do battle with such a fiend. You gain the Forbidden Lore (Daemonology) Skill.
* **Suffer Not The Daemon:** The dire threat posed by the daemon is not lost on you, and you have trained extensively to give yourself as much of an edge as possible against the malefic threat. You gain the Hatred (Daemons) Talent.
#### **Enforcer**
**Career:** Adept, Arbitrator, Assassin, Guardsman, or Scum
**Cost:** 300 xp

The countless worlds of the Imperium of Mankind have an equally uncounted number of planetary governments. From loose dictatorships, to representative republics, to feudal lords battling over scarce resources, the only thing that matters is that these governments are able to provide their tithe to the God-Emperor's cause. As varied as these governments are, so too are the Enforcers found in equal variety. Every planetary governor is left to his own devices to maintain the laws set in place on his world. Enforcers are often on the front lines of lawlessness, working closely with the Adeptus Arbites when a crime is severe enough and keeping the civil order on many worlds safe from other, more petty forms of criminality. 

On the sector capital of Scintilla they are known as the Magistratum, or "Maggies" for short. The Magistratum operates as a sort of paramilitary constabulary of the ruling House Hax, and is present on most other hive worlds whose nobles have pledged loyalty to the Lord Sector's family. Their presence on the hives' streets and passageways is ubiquitous, investigating those crimes that do not threaten the Imperial tithe and punishing the breakers of peace and order. While this justice is often slanted towards the more affluent, individual Magistratum troopers do investigate the troubles of lower citizens as time permits—especially those who can afford a modest donation to the local precinct-fort's coffers.

On Iocanthos, Enforcers are known by many names, their primary task to drag the accused before the roaming "Flags" for judgement. They are little more than thugs, soldiers of each individual tribal leader with a good knack for tracking down miscreants or other troublemakers. A few hold higher ambitions than merely beating and lassoing their masters' enemies into submission and actively seek to curry favour with the Flags for access to better weapons and equipment, or even a chance to get off-world.
##### **Effects**
Apply all of the following to the character:

* **Granted Authority:** Enforcers are used to being given authority, and service in the Inquisition is often a familiar role. All Enforcers may re-roll one Intimidate or Fellowship-based Test per game session when invoking a higher authority for whom they work.
* **Homeworld Enforcer:** Each Enforcer has served for some time on their homeworld, and as every world is different, these benefits are unique to the type of world. Each Enforcer gains Talented (Pick One). This Talent must enhance a Skill that the character's Home World grants the character as either Trained, or a Skill the character's Home world allows him to treat as Basic.
* **The Thin Line:** Lawgivers tend to know their own, for the struggle against the antisocial and the malcontent is universal. You gain the Peer (Enforcers) Talent.
#### **Fate-Eater**
**Career:** Any
**Cost:** 400 xp

The light of the God-Emperor shines upon all of humanity, guiding mankind through the warp. Faith in the God-Emperor protects from the ravages of Chaos. Imperial citizens will often look to the Emperor's Tarot to receive insight into the God-Emperor's plan and to know their destiny.

A few are told that they have none. It is believed that these individuals are doomed to commit heresies so great that the God-Emperor has turned His back upon them. Others, however, hold that they are protected from the nefarious machinations of daemons by the Emperor shading them from the covetous glare of the warp-spawn. Perhaps both are true.

Whatever is true about these individuals, they are extremely rare. The futures of such people are unknown, for they are anathema to the twisted schemes of those who would plot against mankind and are highly sought after by the Inquisition as Acolytes against the forces of the Ruinous Powers.

Mysteriously, such "fateless" souls appear to be able to consume the fate of others. They are a void in the weave of the future, confounding petty fortune-tellers and malicious warp entities plotting their demise alike. It is said that the Fate-Eater is such an anomaly that those they slay were not meant to die then, and thus the Fate-Eater is cursed—or blessed—with the duty of fulfilling the destiny of his victims.
##### **Effects**
Apply all of the following to your character:

* **Feast of Fates Denied:** Every time you kill another character with Fate Points, the Touched by the Fates Trait, or who the GM feels is otherwise significantly important to the game's story, you may roll once on the Divination table, thereafter gaining the benefits of the result. Keep track of which Divinations you have applied—you cannot have the same Divination more than once, so an identical result is wasted and you gain no further benefits from consuming that character's fate.
* **No Future?:** The complete unknowability of your destiny weighs heavily on you in ways that are difficult to conceptualise, but are nonetheless quite profound. You gain the Dark Soul Talent and begin play with no Divination and 1 less Fate Point than you normally should (to a minimum of 1).
#### **Hive Ganger**
**Career:** Adept, Assassin, Guardsman, Imperial Psyker, or Scum
**Cost:** 200 xp
**Requirements:** Hive World Home World

To some extent there is always a measure of lawlessness and criminality on any of the God-Emperor's million worlds. Below the great sky-reaching spires of the hive cities, however, one can find entire parallel societies and systems of order run by these reprobates and felons. Where people live but the grip of the enforcers is weak the gangers will make their own law. 

Gangers come in all sorts. Some are highly organised and stratified criminal syndicates, such as the Kasballica and the Beast House, whose authority could reach across the stars and ensnare multiple worlds. Others are loose groups of like-minded individuals ("community social club" is a common, if disingenuous, appellation) whose influence may only extend across a single hive strata, or possibly just a district or neighbourhood. Depending on the character of their members and leaders, a gang could well be a respected protector of order, levying taxes and providing for the common good, or could just as easily be a band of petty little tyrants that ruthlessly stamp their authority on their fellow hivers until another gang knocks them off.

The more Puritanical Inquisitors are unlikely to see any value in having a ganger in their retinues, considering the recidivist mind to be prone to heresy, corruption. and mutation. Most, however, are not terribly concerned with the small-time crimes and violations of local law—if a ganger's unique set of social mores and connections can help serve the Inquisition, why not give him a chance? Those who prove to be disloyal or feckless can always be handed over to the tender care of the enforcers.
##### **Effects**
Apply all of the following to your character:

* **Ride or Die:** To your peers in the gang you're a loyal comrade ready to go into battle against your enemies. The enforcers and Arbitrators have a decidedly less positive opinion of your lifestyle, and finding gainful employment is challenging—not that you'd ever want to stoop to such a degrading situation, of course. You gain the Peer (Underworld) Talent, but suffer a –10 penalty to all Interaction Tests made against authority figures, such as enforcers and nobles. This penalty may not apply to specific individuals or groups with whom your gang has come to an understanding (i.e. they're on the take). Additionally, you have a social class level of Outcast for determining monthly income (and only for this purpose).
* **Street Soldier:** You have a diverse range of mostly self-taught skills to practice your "trade" such as it is. Some of them involve copious amounts of violence, but only to those who have it coming. You are trained in three of the following Skills of your choice: Awareness, Dodge, Concealment, Gamble, Evaluate, or Tech-Use. You also gain one Talent of your choice from the following list: Basic Weapon Training (SP), Pistol Training (SP), Heavy Weapon Training (SP), Melee Weapon Training (Primitive) or Melee Weapon Training (Chain).
#### **Impostor**
**Career:** Any except Soroitas
**Cost:** 400 xp

The Calixis Sector is a vast, grinding machine that very rarely operates with effective coordination between agencies or even personnel in an agency. Official documentation is everywhere, but often decades out of date or simply incorrect due bureaucratic mistakes such as transcription errors or misfiled reports. Few, for example, know who really is working in other areas of the Administratum beyond perhaps a name or title. With proper costumes and props, a man could take on the role of almost anyone as long as he has the correct confident air about him.

An Impostor moves throughout the Calixis Sector, segueing from one fictitious past to another and staying one step ahead of a great many organisations that would see him dead, or worse. There are as many motivations for living as an Impostor as there are roles for him to assume. Some desire to break free from the intensely ossified nature of Imperial life. Random fate might have intervened for others, forcing them to assume a false identity for survival in a hostile location
or under pressure from threatening cabals or concerns. Many are simply con artists, using their impersonations to serve their criminal livelihood. Only the best survive for long though, as few officials appreciate such art and quickly have the charlatan brought to justice. A canny Inquisitor may realise the value of such an individual, offering him protection from his crimes in return for service to the Inquisition. 

It is said that the true reach and influence of the most successful impostors is unknown, for these rare individuals are never discovered, their peers, underlings and masters still trusting their entirely fictional backgrounds.
##### **Effects**
Apply all of the following to your character:

* **You Can Trust Me:** The measure of any impostor is how efficiently he can twist the truth to serve his purposes, stringing along any number of unknowing accomplices into his plans. You begin play with the Deceive and Disguise Skills, and your choice of the Talented (Deceive) or Talented (Disguise) Talents.
#### **Penitent**
**Career:** Any except Soroitas
**Cost:** 400 xp

Among the Inquisition's numerous foes are vile heretics, adorers of daemons, depraved recidivists
and warp-addled witches who scorn the purity of the Emperor for either their own gain, pleasure or spite. When discovered by servants of the Holy Ordos, all that these damned souls may hope for is a swift death, and there is no guarantee this will be given. Many are wracked, flayed and branded for days, weeks, or months before they are granted the peace of death. 

Some, in this time of pain and question, find in themselves an understanding of what they have done and what they have become. Of those, some beg for forgiveness; few receive it, for mercy is a rare commodity on the part of most Inquisitors. For those being tended to by an Inquisitor of a less Puritanical persuasion, those considered "redeemable" may find that their pleas have been heard by one who is willing to give them a second life: penance as service of the God-Emperor of Man they had once sinned against. These penitent servants have only the life that is given to them by their master, and appreciating the gravity of such a situation, are absolutely devoted both to that master and to the chance of true absolution for their past wickedness.

A Radical Inquisitor could have no shortage of justifications for bringing such a "reformed" heretic into his service. Those who have consorted with the enemy are often well informed of their ways, making them excellent informants and analysts, or in some cases, infiltrators. Others possess proscribed knowledge that could be quite useful in the context of an investigation, or for Inquisitors who lean towards the far fringes of Radicalism, amassing their own furtive libraries. The secretive and clandestine nature of the typical cultist also makes them natural agents in their own right, as they already possess the necessary fundamentals of prosecuting the Inquisition's shadow war against mankind's myriad enemies.
##### **Effects**
Apply all of the following changes to your character:

* **Eternal Gratitude:** The depths of magnanimity shown by your captors is clear to you, for they have given you an almost impossibly generous opportunity to save both your body and soul. The fact that it was almost certainly for no altruistic reason is irrelevant. You are obsequiously loyal to your masters and gain the Insanely Faithful and Flagellant Talents. In addition, you must succeed at a **Hard (–20) Willpower Test** to knowingly betray or act against the interests of the Inquisition.
* **Indelible Mark of Wickedness:** Although you have returned to the straight and narrow path of faith your heresies and misdeeds have left their mark on you (and the tender ministrations of your Inquisitorial interrogators likely didn't help either). You begin play with one Malignancy and 15+1d5 Corruption Points. 
* **Reformed Heretic:** Your previous life as a sinner is over, but your time in darkness far from the God-Emperor's radiance is not forgotten. You begin play with any two Forbidden Lore Skills relevant to your prior misdeeds along with the Dark Soul Talent.
#### **Pilgrim**
**Career:** Any except Tech-Priest
**Special:** A character may take this Background Package after character creation should their duties allow them to take a Pilgrimage of no shorter than two years.
**Cost:** 0 xp

Public travel within the Calixis Sector is, on the whole, not encouraged. Large population movements cause difficulties for planetary governors, and force Battlefleet Calixis to increase its patrols to protect migrants from the inevitable pirates, slavers and xeno scum who frequently descend upon vulnerable starships.

The one exception to this rule is pilgrimage. Religious authorities encourage the faithful to revere the Imperium’s various holy sites and shrine worlds. Pilgrimage binds fractious populations together, generates religious awe, affirms the Ecclesiarchy’s hold over the feudal mindset of the average citizen and increases the sector-wide sense of Imperial community.

A pilgrimage is not something one takes up lightly. It is often one’s children or grand children that will complete the journey and many families have been on the path for generations. Most citizens remain bound to their homeworld their entire lives, but a brave few embark their meagre belongings on their back to the Shrine Worlds on the vast Jericho-class pilgrim vessels, which cram tens of thousands of the faithful on journeys across the Calixis Sector that are more than a little perilous. The Ministorum facilitates passage for devotees from all parts of the social spectrum. Whether the pilgrim is a great lady travelling with her entourage, or a humble groxdrover huddled in fifth-class steerage, the Imperial church is able to ferry the faithful to Shrine Worlds. These journeys do not always end where the pilgrims would like. Unscrupulous captains or the dangers of warp travel can deposit those aboard on any number of habitable planets.

Pilgrimages take decades and can be adventures in their own right. Most pilgrims never return but the ancestors of those who do are changed, penniless individuals, tanned by the suns of a dozen strange worlds, inspired by the words of the saints, and bearing countless battered and travel worn personal relics. Pilgrimage is by no means a “soft option.” Those who survive even one leg of the major pilgrim routes are canny and wary travellers, well experienced in the wider Imperium.
##### **Effects**
Apply all of the following effects to your character:

* **Penniless:** The simple nature of a long pilgrimage is not generally conducive towards any sort of material wealth. You begin play (or return from your pilgrimage) with one weapon, a single devotional trinket, the clothes on his back and nothing else. All other equipment that your character would normally have is removed.
* **Pious Traveller:** The time you've spent retracing the paths of saints and visiting the locations of great importance to the Imperial Creed has rendered you both more knowledgeable about matters of faith and physically tougher than those who only attend weekly services at the local chapel. You gain the Common Lore (Ecclesiarchy) and Survival Skills, along with the Hardy Talent.
#### **Proven Innocent**
**Career:** Any
**Cost:** 200 xp

A common axiom among the Holy Ordos is that "innocence proves nothing." This dire phrase has been repeated to countless heretics as they were put to death amongst pleas that they were not guilty of the crime in question. The phrase has possibly as many meanings as there are Inquisitors and Acolytes. A common interpretation is that ignorance of an action's consequences does not absolve one of responsibility. Another, popular among more vindictive Inquisitors and their henchmen, is that a plea of innocence is useless—failure to be above suspicion alone is enough to merit censure and plenty of ruthless interrogation.

For most caught up in the Inquisition's snares there is no escape, and penance or death is the only outcome (and those are often one and the same). Rarely, an accused may prove their innocence to the satisfaction of their captors, either through careful presentation of exculpatory evidence, a master-class rhetorical defence of their actions, or—most rarely—the Interrogators realising they've actually brought in the wrong man. If the innocent victim is a dreg, scummer, or other "nobody" they may be quietly released (often quite far from where they were picked up), the bewildered citizen unlikely to cause much of a stir with what their fellows would likely dismiss as unhinged rambling or a terrible nightmare. Should the victim happen to be a capable individual, or someone of some greater social standing, he or she will instead face an entirely different fate—as the victim has been judged by the left hand of the Emperor Himself and found to be pure and true in His eyes, why not turn their abilities to serve Him in the shadow war?

This is an offer in name only. Should the innocent refuse, it will be made quite clear that a person of their capability cannot simply be returned to the streets with an apologetic pat on the back. The victim has avoided execution, but in one way or another their previous life is over. They've simply seen too much, and if allowed to freely expatiate about their experiences it could bring great harm to the Inquisition's infallible reputation, not to mention exposing their excruciatingly secretive methods of question and interrogation. Assuming the victim comes around, it will also be made clear that they will enjoy a certain level of accommodation not typically offered to most Acolytes. While ostensibly a form of recompense for the victim's troubles, this also helps assure their continued loyalty to their new masters.
##### **Effects**
Apply all of the following to your character:

* **Against the Odds:** Being accused of heresy by the Imperial Inquisition itself and emerging from the other side unscathed (mostly) is a minor miracle by any means, and if destiny was a quantifiable capital you've expended a good deal of it. You begin play with one less Fate Point than normal (minimum 1).
* **Indulgences:** In light of the "highly unusual" situation which has brought about your service with the Holy Ordos your masters see to it that you do not suffer for lack of mundane amenities. You have a social class level of Mechanicus for determining monthly income (and only for this purpose). If your social class was already equal to or higher than this, calculate your monthly income as if you were three Ranks higher.
* **Special Circumstances:** The exacting process of both the inquiry and proving your innocence to the Interrogators tested every aspect of your being, and you were not found wanting. This extraordinary resilience against intense adversity, combined with the training you've received during your induction, has made you a superior specimen to most. Increase all of your Characteristics by +3 and gain 1 Wound.
#### **Scrounger**
**Career:** Any except Soroitas
**Cost:** 200 xp
**Requirements:** Hive World Home World

Hive world living is often a matter of surviving with limited resources. Unless one is a spire noble, adept, or tradesman most make due with whatever woeful job they are assigned, but some decide
to make their own way. From the lofty spires to the decaying underhive there is always a need for food, shelter, and materials, and an informal yet quite sophisticated market exists for all matters of products that are not traded in the regular channels of commerce.

A Scrounger is part opportunist, part thief, and always on the lookout for the next chance to get something he needs. He operates throughout the greater hive cities of the Calixis Sector, from Sibellus to Subrique, finding what others cast off and acquiring it for his own purposes. This could be as easy as rummaging through local refuse tips, or as difficult as fishing rare alloys from molten slag flumes below a foundry. Groups of more-talented scroungers will occasionally make expeditions into the dangerous depths of the underhive, braving collapsing caverns and vicious mutants in search of fabled lost treasures of previous ages. Most searches will be relatively less circuitous, such as bribing a low level functionary for a moment's access to the reclamation stacks.

More rarely, a band of scroungers will slip their way to the hive spires to rob the wealthy. To the denizens of the lower strata, even the lowliest of the Imperium's servants is wealthy beyond understanding, and it is not uncommon for an Adepta hab-complex to experience a raid,
with gear and equipment of varying value disappearing during the night. It is here that a scrounger, having drawn the attention of Imperial authorities for pilfering their wares, might find his path becoming entwined with the Inquisition's. Demonstrating the necessary cunning and skilfulness needed to pull off such a heist, an accomplished scrounger could prove an excellent asset for an Acolyte cell. Further, when the Inquisitorial agents show up at his hab later it isn't like he would be in a position to refuse such a generous offer either...
##### **Effects**
Apply all of the following to your character:

* **Purveyor of Procurement:** The network of fences, buyers, and fellow scroungers you have cultivated makes it significantly easier to source any bits and baubles you might be on the hunt for. While you are in a hive or another large settlement you treat items with an Availability of Rare or less as one step lower (to a minimum of Abundant).
* **Skilled Reclaimator:** Your time spent excavating a hive's enormous tips looking for things of value has given you a keen and discerning eye for assessing worth and the mercantile ability to profit from the sweat of your labours. You gain the Barter, Evaluate, Tech-Use, and your choice of Trade (Prospector) or Trade (Merchant) Skills.
#### **Untouchable**
**Career:** Any except Imperial Psyker
**Cost:** 400 xp, 600 xp or 800 xp (see below)
**Requirements:** May not have Schola Progenium or Mind-Cleansed Origin. The character must be human, and cannot possess a Psy Rating, the Sorcery Talent, or any other package, Talent, or Trait that grants Psychic Powers, Sorcery, Pure Faith, Navigator Powers, or any other "supernatural" abilities the GM deems appropriate. This restriction applies both during character creation and throughout the the character's life (see the Blank effect below).

Untouchables are extraordinarily rare individuals who cast no shadow in the warp—by some trick of fate or genetic fluke, these people have no warp presence and can inhibit and disrupt psychic energy simply by existing. Other humans, including those with no psychic ability whatsoever, and even beasts of higher intelligence, are extremely uncomfortable and fractious in the mere presence of an Untouchable. No two souls would describe the Untouchable's unsettling air in the same fashion, but all regard them as deeply disturbing individuals for any number of reasons that are often difficult to articulate but no less profound.

People who possess this unique nature are often marginalised and isolated, possessing few or no friends, and the vast majority suffered a troubled upbringing. Few have even the faintest idea of the true nature of their ability, often considering it an inexplicable curse that forever separates them from meaningful relationships and any kind of social standing. Untouchables are commonly ostracised, shunned, and even attacked by those who were once friends and neighbours. Those of weaker will, unable to face the reality of existence alone, may take their own lives after reaching adulthood. The ones who push on often find themselves living on the criminal margins of the Imperium for all their lives, only to die in isolation and utterly unmissed—unless, of course, their particular abilities were to come to the attention of certain interested groups...

Despite the best efforts of some of the brightest minds in the Imperium, the manner in which these “Blanks” and “Untouchables” operate is barely understood. Those who do have some knowledge of the matter do understand one thing about them—in a galaxy filled with warp-spawned abominations and psychic fiends, the ability to simply negate such threats is absolutely priceless. The Culexus Temple of the Officio Assassinorum actively searches for these singular individuals to join their ranks, while Inquisitors, Rogue Traders and even certain spire nobles may try to take an Untouchable into their service to aid and guard them against psychic foes. Such an arrangement is doubtlessly of great boon to the Untouchable, giving them steady work and some measure of social status, achievements that are normally unattainable. It still represents something of a gilded cage, the Untouchable being completely reliant on the largess of his masters, but few would trade this for a life spent in gutters and scorn.
##### **Effects**
Apply all of the following to your character:

* **Blank:** Every fibre of your being is completely and utterly incompatible with all matters of psychic effects. Like a flame in an airless chamber, they simply cease to exist when in contact with your person. You may never gain any Psychic Powers, Pure Faith, Sorcery, or any other "supernatural" abilities that the GM deems appropriate.
* **Unsettling Presence:** Although they have a difficult time to describe exactly why, others find your mere presence offputting at best and completely intolerable at worst. Animals with sharp senses and the more intelligent beasts may also try to avoid being near you or display signs of defensive aggression if you approach. Based on the rating of your Untouchable Trait (see **Table: Untouchable Trait Rating** below) you suffer a penalty to all Interaction Skill Tests, and the starting Disposition of all NPCs you encounter may be reduced as well. In addition, your Fellowship Bonus is reduced by the rating of your Untouchable Trait (minimum 1) for the purposes of any Tests or effects that rely on it, such as the number of targets you can affect with a Charm Test. 
* **Warp Anathema:** Your character gains the Untouchable (X) Trait, with a rating of 1, 2, or 3 depending on whether you spent 400 xp, 600 xp, or 800 xp at selection. The higher the rating of your Untouchable Trait the more powerfully you suppress warp energies, but do note that the various social penalties and hindrances become markedly more severe in parallel (see **Table: Untouchable Trait Rating** below). The rating of your Untouchable Trait is inherent to your being—it cannot be trained or otherwise improved later (or reduced for that matter), so choose wisely when you select this Package.
##### **Trait: Untouchable (X)**
Untouchables have no presence in the warp and inhibit psychic energy in the immediate area.
This Trait has different levels of effect. The number in parentheses indicates the Untouchable’s level of power, which is measured on a scale from 1 to 3.

**Psychic Invulnerability:** An Untouchable is completely immune to Psychic Powers and Psychic energy and effects directed against them. This includes special abilities used by creatures with the Daemonic Trait, the Warp Weapon Quality, Possession, Sorcery, Corruption Points from Warp Shock, and so forth. This ability is absolute, meaning it also affects typically beneficial effects, such as allies with the Pure Faith Talent or if the Untouchable were to receive any sort of healing from a Psychic Power. Untouchables cannot be detected by means of the Psyniscience Skill and similar abilities. Powers of this type directed at an Untouchable, even if successfully manifested, simply fail. If an Untouchable is caught in the effect of a Psychic Power, Psychic Phenomena, or Perils of the Warp over an area effect, it simply fails to affect him, although it may affect other people normally (subject to the Psychic Disruption effect, below).

**Psychic Disruption:** All psykers, sorcerers, daemons, and other such entities within a certain radius of the Untouchable reduce their Psy Rating based on the Untouchable Trait's rating (see **Table: Untouchable Trait Rating** below). Lesser psychic entities, such as wyrds and naturally psychic creatures, that do not have a Psy Rating and manifest their powers in other ways are simply unable to do so. In addition, the Threshold of any psychic powers or sorcery increases relative to the Untouchable Trait's rating, and entities subject to Warp Instability suffer double Damage from its effects while within this area.

**Note:** It may still be possible to indirectly affect an Untouchable with a Psychic Power—for example, a heavy object flung through the air using telekinesis could still strike him, and a building set on fire using pyromancy would still burn him as long as the flames were coming from other materials which had already come alight.

An Untouchable's true nature would be all but immediately revealed to another character who could not detect him with a successful use of the Psyniscience Skill, but could otherwise observe him with other senses, such as sight or hearing. All living creatures have an obvious presence in the warp, and an Untouchable being completely invisible there would be alarming to say the least.
##### **Table: Untouchable Trait Rating**

| Untouchable Trait Rating          |       1        |       2        |         3         |
| --------------------------------- | :------------: | :------------: | :---------------: |
| **Culexus Temple Designation**    | Vessel Minoris | Vessel Majoris |  Vessel Terminus  |
| **Psychic Disruption Radius (m)** |  1/2 WP Bonus  |    WP Bonus    |   1.5x WP Bonus   |
| **Psy Rating Reduction**          |  1/2 WP Bonus  |    WP Bonus    | Null–reduced to 0 |
| **Power Threshold Increase**      |       5        |       10       |        15         |
| **Interaction Test Penalty**      |      –10       |      –10       |        –20        |
| **Disposition Decrease**          |      None      |     1 step     |      2 steps      |
#### **Warp Touched**
**Career:** Any except Sororitas
**Cost:** 400 xp

There are places where the barrier between reality and the warp is thin. Across such feeble barriers the influence of the power of the warp can touch those who are near. This is not the touch of the daemon, the malign intelligences that form in the tides of that other realm’s energy. It is a caressing, violating, warping tendril of the boiling psychic energy of the warp itself, leaking across into reality like an invisible fog or a howling gale. All who it touches are marked, some subtly, others quite profoundly.

On Sleef, the warp whispers in the thunder of the volcanoes and can change the fate of those who hear it. On Mara, it buzzes and scratches, sending men mad, whilst on Dusk, it shivers amongst the swamp trees like the laughter of a hag. Those who are touched by the warp may possess strange powers that they carry in their blood, bone, and mind. So subtle and dangerous are the seeds planted by the warp that many Puritanical servants of the Inquisition would burn one so touched—for others within the Holy Ordos, such touched individuals are curiosities to be observed, or perhaps prospects to be embraced and bound to service, if for no other reason than to see what they may become or whether the touch of the warp is an inevitably corrupting one.
##### **Effects**
Apply all of the following to your character:

* **Our Gift To You:** The warp itself has plans for you. None can say what they may be, but your destiny is very likely a dark one. You begin play with one Malignancy and 10+1d10 Corruption Points. In addition, you suffer a –10 penalty on any Test to resist gaining further Corruption Points in the future.
* **Unnatural Assistance:** The long, snakelike fingers of the warp have infiltrated your mind, profoundly altering the way you perceive the world around you. Possessing even a tiny portion of insight as to the gloriously anarchic nature of the warp has rendered you remarkably unflappable, keeping your wits about you when any sane person would flee in terror. You gain the From Beyond Trait.
##### **Trait: From Beyond**
The mind of a creature with this Trait is beyond the petty frailties and precarious sanity of a mortal mind. It is immune to Fear, Pinning, Insanity Points, and Psychic Powers used to cloud, control, or delude its mind.
#### **Wyrd**
**Career:** Any except Imperial Psyker or Sororitas
**Cost:** 300 xp

Wyrds are individuals who possess a small spark of psychic ability. Most of these individuals do not consider themselves psykers (and may not even know what one of those is), but are simply gifted, blessed or lucky—but their powers are very real. From the thief who can steal in plain sight and never be remembered, the enforcer who gets a strange feeling that makes him duck a second before the bullet hits the wall above him, to the low-hive physic that can heal wounds with a touch, the power of a wyrd can be seen as a vital edge—or a mark of damnation. 

Unless the wyrd discovers the true nature of his powers and metamorphoses into a nascent psyker his psychic abilities will remain small and stable. However, a small morsel though he may be, he is nonetheless tempting to the predators that lurk in the warp and hunger for reality and flesh. Many wyrds pass through their whole lives without their power being discovered, while others are scooped up by the Black Ships and sent to Terra to face the daunting prospect of sanctioning. 

Only a Radical Inquisitor would consider knowingly taking a wyrd into his retinue, but more than a few have answered the call to serve, only to have their "gift" discovered after the fact. In such cases, the wyrd's master must carefully weigh the value of their Acolyte's contributions to the Holy Ordos against the threat their unsanctioned power presents, to say nothing of the displeasure of the masters of the Black Ships should they ever find out.
##### **Effects**
Apply all of the following to your character:

* **Caress of Chaos:** The strange and ephemeral gift of your birth came with the faintest touch of of the warp almost imperceptibly seeding itself in your soul. You begin play with 1d5 Corruption Points.
* **Wyrdling:** Your psychic abilities are limited but you know them innately. You have a single Minor Psychic Power that is randomly generated at the point of character creation. You have no Psy Rating—instead, roll 1d10 and add your Willpower Bonus to see if you can manifest the power. If you generate Psychic Phenomena by rolling a 9 on the Power Roll you may re-roll it, but the results of the re-roll are final. As a wyrd you will not gain any additional Psychic Powers, but circumstances may cause you to metamorphose into a nascent psyker, and the darkly tempting mysteries of sorcery might make themselves known to you in time. Regardless of the nature of your power, you are still considered a psyker for the purposes of rules that pertain to psykers, such as the Hatred Talent or the effects of taking a dose of spook.
## **Adepts: Knowledge is Power**
The following Background Packages are intended for use with Adepts.
#### **Kasballica Noble**
**Career:** Adept, Assassin or Scum
**Cost:** 400 xp
**Requirements:** Hive or Imperial World Home World

The Kasballica crime barons of the Drusus Marches have agents across the Calixis Sector and even within the Koronus Expanse. The combination of ruthless cunning and sheer audacity with which many of these men conduct "business" can rocket the unscrupulous to positions of power well above their station. These "Low Dukes" (as they are mockingly called in Hive Sibellus) are often considered little more than con men and crooks whose influence allows them to rub elbows with the true nobles whose titles are theirs by birth.

When a Kasballica operative gets a little too comfortable pretending to nobility the syndicate's leadership will often attempt to reign him in, as such brazen actions can disrupt proper business and draw unwanted attention from adversaries with deep pockets. Most comply, but the especially ambitious (or foolish) will force the Kasballica to cut ties, forcing the faux noble to operate independently. Rarely, a clever noble will find ways to protect himself, maintaining his position and rising to power on his own—a few have even bought their way into power in their own right, becoming true nobles through largess alone. More commonly, they eventually out themselves, get caught, are brought up on charges, and face imprisonment, execution, or worse.

If an outed Kasballica noble appears to be "redeemable", an Inquisitor or Judge of the Adeptus Arbites may offer him another way out: penance in the form of service to the Emperor. The noble's combination of savvy, ambition, and an ability to deal with other cultures without "going native" makes them an obvious candidate for work requiring deep cover and investigation. The noble's loyalty to his new masters can also be reasonably assured, as he can always be handed over to those who would seek justice on him if he's anything less than faithful.
##### **Effects**
Apply all of the following to your character:

* **Brothers in Trade:** Many of your prior "associates" are still out and about in the less legal precincts of society, and as long as you don't reveal the nature of your new masters they could be called upon to assist your endeavours. You gain the Peer (Underworld) Talent.
* **Do You Know Who I Am?:** Although you're no longer a member of the Kasballica the techniques of manipulation and subtly implied threats you picked up are still sharp tools in your kit. You gain the Blather and Intimidate Skills, and any Intimidate Tests targeting you or a group you're a member of suffer a -10 penalty.
* **Shady Income:** Some of your criminal enterprises continue to run on their own even as you've turned, or been forced to turn, most of your energies to more important tasks. In addition to the normal monthly income you gain from your career's Social Class, your various schemes and rackets generate another income stream each month using the following chart. Roll 1d10 and add the indicated earnings to any other income you are entitled to.
##### **Table: Kasballica Noble Income**

| D10 | Result         | Earnings  |
| --- | -------------- | --------- |
| 1   | Grift          | 1d10 + 10 |
| 2-3 | "Honest" Trade | 2d10 + FB |
| 4-5 | Embezzlement   | 2d10 x IB |
| 6-7 | Extortion      | 2d10 x SB |
| 8-9 | Short Con      | 2d10 x FB |
| 10  | Long Con       | 4d10 x FB |
#### **Munitorium Quastor**
**Cost:** 100 xp

The Departmento Munitorium is a vast and unforgiving organisation with the unending task of keeping the Imperium's innumerable armed forces supplied with everything from voidship plasma cores to bootlaces and bullets. This, as can be imagined, requires a great deal of unimaginably complex logistical effort and administration. The role of the quastor in this is one of unblinking oversight and ruthless control, spending long hours auditing records for errors, graft, and misappropriation. Such individuals must also see that harsh discipline and work quotas are rigidly enforced, and remain vigilant for signs of rebellion or malcontent. Regularly targeted by criminals and even cultists who seek to plunder arms and equipment, not to mention by the vengeance of aggrieved labourers and prisoners, quastors have a justified reputation as being dour, humourless and a justly paranoid lot.

The quastor's life is neither safe nor pleasant, but the attention to detail and arbitrary judgement it engenders are of obvious use in a servant of the Holy Ordos. Just as a virtue of the proclivities of their work, the quastor also tends to be of a more hardened sort than a rank-and-file adept of the Administratum or a commercia guild. Any quastor inducted into the ranks of the Inquisition is likely to find they have simply swapped one set of familiar dangers for far larger and even more terrible perils.
##### **Effects** 
Apply all of the following to your character:

* **I'll Let Myself In:** While your schola mates in the Administratum would be perfectly content to file a demand form and wait for a response through the proper channels, your know perfectly well that your work for the Imperium's ongoing war efforts is far too exigent for such frivolities. When the manufactorum producing wheels for Leman Russ battle tanks falls behind schedule, you get to the root of the problem personally. You gain Command, Common Lore (Imperial Guard), Inquiry, Search, and Security as starting Skills.
* **Worn and Weary:** The work of most adepts is thankless already, but the quastor's lot is an especially grinding one. You have endured more excuses, deception, and sophistry than most, leaving you with a profoundly sour attitude and less than no patience for duplicity. Despised by nearly all that you regularly associate with, the endless skulduggery and entirely necessary fastidiousness has taken more than a little from the health of your mind. Reduce your starting Willpower and Fellowship each by –5, and gain the Paranoia Talent.
#### **Scholar of the Colleges Hetaireia Lexis**
**Cost:** 100 xp
**Requirements:** Imperial World Homeworld or Noble Origin.

The Hetaireia Lexis is a loose organisation of academic and private institutes, devoted to learning and the higher arts, with a strange and cheered history. Established by Lord Sector Valacirca some six centuries ago, their independence and rights are protected by a binding legal charter granting them significant autonomy despite being outside the control of the Adepta. Over the years, the Hetaireia has survived numerous changes in sector governorship, Ecclesiarchy opposition, scandals, murders, heresy trials, blasphemous rumors and even a full Inquisitorial purge of one of its contributing bodies, and yet continues to operate to this day. There are perhaps a dozen separate institutions operating under the Hetaireia's umbrella and scattered across the sector. They range from small cloistered scriptoriums with no more than a few score students to the Lexis Maxima—a labyrinthine complex housing over a thousand scholars in the shadow of the Lucid Palace itself in Hive Sibellus.

Many Puritan Inquisitors regard the Hetaireia as a breeding ground for dangerous ideas and freethinkers, and would gladly shut the collective down if it would not threaten open hostility with the Lord Sector. Others see the learned men and women it produces as a valuable resource to be exploited in the Inquisition's shadow war against seekers of profane knowledge. Having a Hetaireia scholar embedded in an Acolyte cell, or available for consultation on more esoteric matters, could provide a vital breakthrough when investigating a particularly clandestine conspiracy. Some scholars answer the call willingly, eager to use their diverse and hermetical learning in the furtherance of the Imperium's interests, while others may need some gentle convincing—often in the form of implied threats involving severely Puritanical cabals within the Holy Ordos—to take up the mantle.
##### **Effects** 
Apply all of the following to your character:

* **Book Learning:** A true scholar by both name and deed, you have spent much time in research and academic debate—perhaps to the detriment of skills better suited for "wet work" tasks. Increase your Intelligence by +3 but reduce your Weapon Skill and Strength each by –5. You begin play with any one Forbidden Lore and Scholastic Lore Skills of your choice.
* **Hermetic Fraternity:** The Colleges Hetaireia is an insular organisation and for good reason. Despite its legal remit, the Hetaireia has no shortage of enemies in high places, and its scholars would do well to keep that in mind when travelling outside its walls. After all, a formal censure and rebuke can't un-servitorise you. You begin play with the Ciphers (Secret Society—Hetaireia) Skill and the Peer (Academic) Talent.
#### **Thy Name I Keep**
**Cost:** 400 xp

For those who covet forbidden knowledge, few prizes are greater than the true name of a daemon. To possess a daemon’s name is to be able to command it, to bridle it and have it do one’s bidding. Few are lucky—or insane—enough to learn such a great secret, for daemons are unbelievably covetous entities and guard the keys to their nature well. A daring soul may, however, learn a fragment or phrase of an entity’s name through long study and research into matters malefic and corrupt. To possess even a fragment of a daemon’s name is a great prize that can be used to access a portion of the power of the daemon and have to give little in return—at least at first. Those who would dare try to bend a daemon to their will would be well advised to keep in mind that daemons are often vindictive, capricious, and petty entities with an eternity of time to plot and scheme.

Scholars of the forbidden who have obtained a fragment of a daemonic name would expect to be purged with fire if discovered by a member of the Inquisition. "Suffer not the daemon" is a common expression among agents of the Ordo Malleus, and the scholar's motivations for trying to bridle such an inestimably vile being are unlikely to earn him any mercy. For some Inquisitors
who follow a particularly Radical philosophy, such talented individuals may find a safe haven. These eccentrics can see the value of turning such a powerful force against the Imperium's foes, but will nonetheless carefully monitor their scholarly Acolyte for any sign of wavering loyalty, or the potential of his "pet" daemon overtaking him. If the scholar's master suspects he may no longer be able to wield the daemon in service to the Imperium his fate will be no different than if he'd been caught by one of his master's more orthodox peers.
##### **Effects**
Apply all of the following to your character:

* **Darkness Visible:** Despite your best efforts the perfidious nature of the warp has insidiously infiltrated your studies and begun to sink its tendrils into your soul. Perhaps the daemon could enlighten you to better ways of protecting yourself from its corrosive influences... you begin play with 1d5+5 Corruption Points and 1d10 Insanity Points.
* **Know Thy Foe:** Attempting to control a daemon, even from a "safe" distance such as this, would spell certain damnation without extensive preparation and study. You have immersed yourself in all matters of proscribed manuscripts and risked denouncement and charges of heresy to arm yourself with as much knowledge as possible to keep the daemon under your thumb. You gain the Forbidden Lore (Daemonology) Skill as well as the Talented (Forbidden Lore (Daemonology)) and Resistance (Psychic Powers) Talents.
* **Power of the Daemon:** You have the effects of one boon of a Dark Pact. You may also attempt to call into your presence the daemon of which you know a fragment of its name. This works in exactly the same way as Invoking the Daemon.
#### **Void Commercia**
**Cost:** 200 xp
**Requirements:** Void Born Origin

Interplanetary trade is absolutely vital to the Calixis Sector. Its densely populated hive worlds need enormous amounts of food and raw materials, and there are entire planets devoted to just that purpose. The hives themselves export vast stocks of manufactured goods and equipment to sustain the sector's industry and agriculture, and so the cycle continues perpetually. Maintaining this trade is no easy task, as interstellar travel is a dangerous, disturbing, and esoteric business, and usually best left to those born to its vagaries. 

In order to protect their interests, the various planetary commercia guilds, corporations and noble houses that make up this vast economic network each maintain a staff of highly trained and specialised adepts to act as their agents and administer their cargoes as they make passage between the stars. These atypical adepts—the Void Commercia as they are known—are usually recruited and trained under contract from the Administratum itself, although some larger organisations are more than able to draw them entirely from their own ranks.

The life of a Void Commercia is one of relative placidity punctuated by moments of extreme peril. Ordinarily, the adept-voidsman need only assure securement and the proper exchanges of his master's wares—mostly a matter of diligence and knowledge of the correct mercantile processes. Once in a while the particular threats to interplanetary cargo rear their head, and it is here that the Void Commercia earns his generous keep. None would expect an adept to fight off pirates or a mutinying crew (these are matters for the ship's security proctors), but it is nevertheless incumbent on the Void Commercia to record all aspects of the cargo's condition, including if it is being stolen! 

The Void Commercia truly comes into his own when faced with a more mendacious threat, such as iniquitous dock brokers or perniciously corrupt impost agents demanding more gelt than they're owed when the cargo must pass through their fiefs. The Commercia's authoritative grasp of contractual obligation, mercantile procedure, and naval law makes him well suited to quickly cut through the obstructions put between his master's cargo and its intended recipients. This "bureaucratic lancet" talent has resulted in more than a few Void Commercia being cashiered into the service of Inquisitors who find themselves stymied by opaque organisations and institutional inertia. 

Only a profound fool would reject the demands of an Inquisitor, but there are many circumstances where the work of Inquisitorial agents must be performed clandestinely, lest their quarry get wind of impending doom and go to ground. When heretical cults and smugglers of xenos artifacts shroud themselves within the labyrinthine, convoluted world of interplanetary commerce, a seconded Void Commercia can pare through the layers of ignorant functionaries and institutional morass to reveal the rot so others may cut it out.
##### **Effects** 
Apply all of the following to your character:

* **Juris Scholar:** When it comes to matters of trade your grasp of the controlling regulations, guild bylaws, and impost obligations is vast, and you aren't afraid to verbally bludgeon anyone who tries to twist those against you either. You gain the Barter, Blather, Charm, Common Lore (Imperium), Common Lore (Mercantile), Evaluate, Scrutiny, and Secret Tongue (Trading—Pick One) Skills. Selecting a Secret Tongue should be relevant to your prior tenure before joining the Inquisition, for example Goldentongue for gelt-brokers at the Goldenhand of Hive Tarsus, or Cordcordia for the thrallmasters of the DeVayne Incorporation. 
* **Rhetorician:** Your greatest weapon is a sharp tongue, quick wit, and the esoteric knowledge behind them to trap your enemies with their own words and deeds. Consequently, you'd prefer to leave the use of actual weapons to your more rough and ready fellows. Increase your Intelligence and Fellowship by +3 but reduce your Weapon Skill and Toughness each by –5.
## **Arbitrators: Case File Access Denied**
The following Background Packages are intended for use with Arbitrators.
#### **Assignment: The Calixian Pattern Killings**
**Cost:** 200 xp

In form, the gruesome killings are unremarkable: a throat slashed by a blade of exceeding sharpness, in some cases severing the head completely; sometimes the corpse is further slashed and dismembered and organs are removed. Crimes of such violence are sadly not uncommon in the back alleys of the Imperium's great hive cities, but in this case something far darker is afoot, for the killings form an ongoing pattern separated by geography and time, sometimes whole worlds apart. The finest seers and savants have been driven mad for merely focusing their minds on the mystery, and for centuries the killings have not stopped, nor has their meaning been deciphered.

The diversity of the victims and the locale of the crimes are great. Some are the lowliest of workers slaving in a processing mill, others have been wealthy and powerful individuals killed in their homes. All the killings occur at night, in some cases a darkened public space mere yards away from other citizens who hear nothing of the crime done so close to them. Some victims have been found dead in locked rooms, the only access a window opening to a perilously long drop. Those who have caught a glimpse of the killer give a consistent and disturbing set of details: a pair of eyes glittering so they almost appear to burn, a strange fluid quickness of movement, and the swirl of a dark cloak or the repeated tap of a cane. All who have confronted him (or it) have been left maimed or dead.

When the Lord Sector Quintus Hax himself fell victim to such a killing the pattern became a matter of Imperial interest, and Judges of the Adeptus Arbites have delegated significant investigatory resources towards identifying who, or what, has been quietly reaping both high and low-born citizens across the sector. While the true nature of the killings has remained elusive, Arbitrators consider the assignment of investigating it to be a prestigious one, as it represents a subject of great importance to the powers that be. Only the sharpest Arbites will be brought into the know of this dark situation, and those who've dedicated their time and effort towards finally breaking the Calixian Pattern Killings are of great interest to Inquisitors who need a relentless but steady hand at leaving no stone unturned.
##### **Effects** 
Apply all of the following to your character:

* **Dragnet:** Going door to door and street by street after the latest victim is discovered is the only chance of getting a new lead on whoever, or whatever, is responsible for the Killings. You gain the Interrogation Skill and the Talented (Inquiry) Talent.
* **Not On My Watch:** The utterly confounding nature of the Killings could drive a man mad who lacks the critical mental edge to keep things in perspective and within their grasp. Your acumen is a cut above other troopers, which is why the Marshal put you on the case in the first place. Increase either your Intelligence or Perception by +5, or both by +3.
#### **Assignment: The Empty Men of Sinophia Magna**
**Cost:** 100 xp

A few years ago, reports reached Ordos Calixis of a series of gruesome and bizarre deaths in the city of Sinophia Magna that shocked even the inhabitants of that benighted world. The truth of what happened has been completely suppressed. However, stories persist on Sinophia of widespread casualties, of Arbites turning on each other and, most dreadfully, of men transforming into ravening monsters with inhuman strength, driven to rend apart their own bodies and any others they could reach.

The terrible truth behind these stories lay in a conspiracy and a failed plot by the heretical tech-cult known as the Logicians to perform the utterly forbidden act of the combining the sacred human form with xenos biology and raise an army of "perfected" humans. The horrific culmination of the investigation saw the destruction of the Adeptus Arbites precinct-house by traitors within, and a full-scale Inquisition-led raid on the PDF medicae center where the deviant bio-alchemists of the cult had pursued their vile transgenic blasphemy. Those that saw what lurked inside the sub-levels of that facility, hidden so carefully from human sight, were forever altered by the revelation.

Some of the loyal Arbitrators who purged the Logicians' lair were utterly ruined by the experience. Most of those who kept their senses developed a burning, all-consuming loathing of the tech heretic, and some all but begged the Inquisition to induct them into its ranks in the hopes of catching up with the masterminds of this staggering atrocity. Later, when the scale of the Logicians' sector-wide plots became apparent, most of the remaining veterans of the Sinophian abomination were brought in as well. These grim troopers needed little convincing to heed this higher call, and were parcelled out to individual Inquisitors whose Acolyte cells may come into conflict with the remaining Logicians scattered throughout the sector.
##### **Effects** 
Apply all of the following to your character:

* **Hammer of Hereteks:** After what you've seen on Sinophia you are completely convinced that your fellow man is capable of atrocities far beyond even those of xenos and daemons. Your will to utterly destroy those who would use technology to turn men into monsters is stronger than the ferrocrete walls of your preinct-fort. Increase your Willpower by +3, and you gain the Hatred (Tech Heretics) and Paranoia Talents.
* **What Has Been Seen...:** Some horrors are beyond human comprehension, and the fact that these heinous acts were committed by men somehow makes it all the worse. You gain the Jaded Talent and 1d10+5 Insanity Points.
#### **Justice, Not Law**
**Cost:** 200 xp

The popular perception of the Adeptus Arbites is that of the consummate legalist, men and women of unbending integrity that mete out prescribed punishments to lawbreakers so that the rest of the citizens might be saved from anarchy and criminal depredations. There are, in fact, many Arbitrators that are cast right from this mould, dispassionately dispensing judgement through shotgun, shield and baton. However, there does exist a substantial minority which takes a more grey and "nuanced" view of crime and punishment than their brothers in arms who loudly slap a copy of the *Lex Imperialis* on their hips each morning.

Why would an Arbitrator, a paragon of law and order, allow themselves to fall into what's commonly called "petty corruption"? There are certainly some whose morality has degraded to the point that they could be charitably called a Magistratum with a bigger badge, accepting bribes and looking the other way for those with the right connections. However, many—if not most—who've strayed from the straight and narrow have done so after a deeply frustrating revelation: the law itself is actually in conflict with the administration of justice.

An Arbitrator's reasons for walking in shadow are as diverse as the troopers themselves, but there are some notably common themes. Having gathered all the necessary evidence to make an accusation of crimes against the Imperium, the Arbitrator finds no action was taken, or the matter was quietly resolved "off-the-books", because the guilty party is a spire noble who could pay his way out of trouble, or a guilder magnate whose persecution would cause "unacceptable" disruption of commerce in the region. A trooper, having extracted a confession and all the corroboration an Arbites Judge could ask for, is forbidden from actually bringing the varlet to justice due to violating some arcane rule of interrogation. Perhaps most enraging, the Arbitrator sees his duty done and the guilty punished, only to find out his labours have been exploited to settle a dispute between powerful moneyed interests. All were culpable, but only the socially disfavoured party was sentenced, their former peers using the Arbitrator to do their dirty work, then tearing up the condemned's assets like greedy ptera-vultures the moment after the judgement was passed.

There are some among the Arbites who, after enduring significant abuses by this state of affairs, adopt a more "flexible" interpretation of the law. Justice, not the dogmatic application of the *Lex Imperialis* itself, should be the goal, and if that means consorting with criminals to gain the aid of informants and take down a greater villain or breaking a few laws to see to it that the truly wicked and depraved get what's coming to them then so be it.

This very subjective interpretation of law, along with the strongly outcome-oriented philosophy, makes such deviant Arbitrators an attractive prospect for many like-minded Inquisitors. Indeed, a successful and capable trooper facing censure from a doctrinaire Marshal might find a shadowy figure waiting outside with an entirely more agreeable job offer in hand—to take up arms in the shadow war, where the ends almost always justifies the means.
##### **Effects**
Apply all of the following to your character:

* **I'll Get My Hands Dirty:** Associating with "colourful" characters and developing leads from gutter-dwelling filth holds no contempt from you, as long as those lowlifes help you get your man. Some of your more straight-laced fellows in the Arbites take a dim view of your willingness to cooperate with such unsavoury types, though. You gain the Deceive, Disguise, and Intimidate Skills, as well as the Peer (Underworld) Talent. However, due to your reputation you also suffer a –10 penalty on all Interaction Tests with any Arbitrators or enforcers who have a strongly legalistic philosophy.
## **Assassins: Societies of Murder**
The following Background Packages are intended for use with Assassins.
#### **The Astral Knives**
**Cost:** 200 xp
**Requirements:** Void Born Origin

As members of a proscribed death cult, the Astral Knives must keep their beliefs secret to all but their most trusted confidants. A secret fellowship within the already insular society of the void born, the Order of the Astral Knife's members take it upon themselves, as a sacred duty, to keep mankind safe during voyages through the warp. If a voyage suffers, dark portents are witnessed or danger draws close in the warp, the Astral Knives carry out a sacrifice to ensure the Emperor's protection. Those most obviously "unclean" targets, such as mutants and psykers, are selected first, but almost anyone might be selected in consultation with ritual foretelling.

Some fifty years ago the Ordos Calixis declared the Astral Knives a heretical sect after it was found that worshippers of the Ruinous Powers had infiltrated multiple communes of the Order, and a concerted purge was undertaken. Despite this most harsh rebuke, survivors of the Order remain committed to their sacrificial prognostication, and a new generation of Knives now lurks on a great many voidships ready to spill blood to secure the vessel's safe voyage.

An Astral Knife cultist is usually born rather than made, with certain void families and clans having long traditions of involvement with the Order, either as assassins themselves or in tacitly providing support to them. The typical Knife is no raving killer—they are taught that their murders, often arranged to seem as accidents, are a cruel but necessary duty. Some members grieve over their victims when appropriate, while others seek to hone their skills further by taking payment for the use of their skills among the void born, particularly if the target is a "dirtsider" or not of the ship.

For an organisation which has specifically fallen under denouncement by the Inquisition, there are an oddly high number of Astral Knives in its service today. Inquisitors of a more Radical leaning, many of whom did not support the Order's purge in the first place, view these adroit killers and prognosticators as natural assets that should be used, not spurned. For their part, the Order is more than happy to second some of its members to a Radical Inquisitor's retinues, seeking to prove their purity before the God-Emperor in His service.

**Effects** 
Apply all of the following to your character:

* **Death Cultist:** The Astral Knives take lives in subtle, unobtrusive ways so as to mask the role they play aboard the voidships in which the Order has a presence. If others among the crew or passengers were to discover the mishap that befell one of them was a deliberate act the protective value of the sacrifice would be lost. You gain the Ciphers (Secret Society—Astral Knives) and Deceive Skills, and you may also treat Forbidden Lore (Warp) and Tech Use as Basic Skills. Your prior murders earn you 1d5 Corruption Points.
* **Haemological Augury:** According to the masters of your Order spilling the blood of an undesirable can spare a ship from the cruel and capricious whims of the void. Indeed, you have found that taking a life can grant you a sliver of insight into what the future may hold and how to best navigate impending trouble. Each time you kill another character you may use the Foresight Talent once that day as if you possessed it. If the victim had no idea they were about to be killed, as is the way of the Astral Knives, you may apply the benefits of Foresight to any Test, not just Intelligence-based ones.
#### **Kasballica Noble**
**Career:** Adept, Assassin or Scum
**Cost:** 400 xp
**Requirements:** Hive World or Imperial World Home World

The Kasballica crime barons of the Drusus Marches have agents across the Calixis Sector and even within the Koronus Expanse. The combination of ruthless cunning and sheer audacity with which many of these men conduct "business" can rocket the unscrupulous to positions of power well above their station. These "Low Dukes" (as they are mockingly called in Hive Sibellus) are often considered little more than con men and crooks whose influence allows them to rub elbows with the true nobles whose titles are theirs by birth.

When a Kasballica operative gets a little too comfortable pretending to nobility the syndicate's leadership will often attempt to reign him in, as such brazen actions can disrupt proper business and draw unwanted attention from adversaries with deep pockets. Most comply, but the especially ambitious (or foolish) will force the Kasballica to cut ties, forcing the faux noble to operate independently. Rarely, a clever noble will find ways to protect himself, maintaining his position and rising to power on his own—a few have even bought their way into power in their own right, becoming true nobles through largess alone. More commonly, they eventually out themselves, get caught, are brought up on charges, and face imprisonment, execution, or worse.

If an outed Kasballica noble appears to be "redeemable", an Inquisitor or Judge of the Adeptus Arbites may offer him another way out: penance in the form of service to the Emperor. The noble's combination of savvy, ambition, and an ability to deal with other cultures without "going native" makes them an obvious candidate for work requiring deep cover and investigation. The noble's loyalty to his new masters can also be reasonably assured, as he can always be handed over to those who would seek justice on him if he's anything less than faithful.
##### **Effects**
Apply all of the following to your character:

* **Brothers in Trade:** Many of your prior "associates" are still out and about in the less legal precincts of society, and as long as you don't reveal the nature of your new masters they could be called upon to assist your endeavours. You gain the Peer (Underworld) Talent.
* **Do You Know Who I Am?:** Although you're no longer a member of the Kasballica the techniques of manipulation and subtly implied threats you picked up are still sharp tools in your kit. You gain the Blather and Intimidate Skills, and any Intimidate Tests targeting you or a group you're a member of suffer a -10 penalty.
* **Shady Income:** Some of your criminal enterprises continue to run on their own even as you've turned, or been forced to turn, most of your energies to more important tasks. In addition to the normal monthly income you gain from your career's Social Class, your various schemes and rackets generate another income stream each month using the following chart. Roll 1d10 and add the indicated earnings to any other income you are entitled to.
##### **Table: Kasballica Noble Income**

| D10 | Result         | Earnings  |
| --- | -------------- | --------- |
| 1   | Grift          | 1d10 + 10 |
| 2-3 | "Honest" Trade | 2d10 + FB |
| 4-5 | Embezzlement   | 2d10 x IB |
| 6-7 | Extortion      | 2d10 x SB |
| 8-9 | Short Con      | 2d10 x FB |
| 10  | Long Con       | 4d10 x FB |
#### **The Moritat**
**Cost:** 300 xp
**Requirements:** Feral World, Imperial World or Hive World Home World

The Moritat is a well-known Imperial Death Cult that is far older than Calixis itself. Some legends say it was brought to Calixis by adherents secreted among the forces of the Angevin Crusade who carved the sector into being. Others claim it was already seeded in place, waiting for the Crusade's arrival to declare their eternal loyalty to the Emperor. In all cases, the Moritat leans heavily on the Imperial Creed, albeit with a very bloody and mystical interpretation of its dogma. It teaches that only through the merciless application of violence and death can the Imperium be sustained, the weak and corrupt winnowed out and the Emperor's own great sacrifice honoured. 

In organisation, the Moritat is supremely difficult to infiltrate or pin down, operating in independent cells each led by a single master or mistress seeded in recruiting grounds such as ganger-controlled hive strata, feral world wildernesses, and feudal war zones. The Moritat selects those who have already been "marked" by tragedy and bloodshed to serve the Emperor as a bringer of death to His enemies. They take these individuals from a young age and forge their bitterness and hate into a weapon of absolute sharpness. Recruits are trained relentlessly in the arts of destruction, deception and bloodletting, while at the same time indoctrinating them into their own brand of Imperial faith and the mysteries of the cult. Moritat aspirants who survive this education become full members of the cult and are sent out alone into the wider Imperium—a process they call the "travail" to hone their skills as assassins, vigilantes and peerless duellists, believing that only through continuous conflict and bloody experience can they become supreme in their arts and worthy to serve the Emperor.

The existence of the Moritat is something of an open secret in the hierarchy of the Calixian noble houses and the Adepta, although facts about them are scarce and often contradictory in the extreme. The cult's existence also seems to benefit from some measure of toleration by the Imperium's higher powers, and indeed, this cult is acknowledged by the Calixian Sector Synod of the Ecclesiarchy as legitimate. The fact that they also operate with a sort of informal approval of the Inquisition should not be overlooked, and many Inquisitors regard Moritat Assassins as invaluable resources, faithful killing machines that can be unleashed on the foes of mankind. 

For a Moritat Assassin, the chance to serve the Inquisition is a blessed thing—dealing death to the God-Emperor's enemies first hand and also a proving ground where they can test their skills against the most dire and powerful opposition imaginable. It is rumoured that the Moritat's grandmaster, thought to reside somewhere on Scintilla, was one such Throne Agent who has been released from his service to the Inquisition in order to help foster new wielders of the Bloody Edge.
##### **Effects** 
Apply all of the following to your character:

* **Death Cultist:** Your training has made you exceptionally skilled at killing quietly, which you feel compelled to do as a matter of religious obligation. Your proficiency with a blade is almost peerless—your sociability, not so much. You gain the Climb, Secret Tongue (Moritat), Shadowing, and Silent Move Skills, as well as the Jaded Talent, but reduce your Fellowship by 10 (minimum 1). In addition, you gain 1d5+3 Insanity Points.
* **The Bloody Edge:** The Moritat severely disdain many modern weapons as crude and spiritually unfulfilling, preferring instead the sacred edge of the blade. As a Moritat you must pass a **Hard (–20) Willpower Test** to use any weapon lacking an "edge" in combat (thrown blades, knives and arrows are fine) unless you obviously have no chance of harming your enemy otherwise. However, such is your deadly artistry at bloodletting, any edged weapon in your hand counts as having the Tearing quality when used against living targets.

**Special:** Replace your normal starting equipment with the following: mono-edged sword, six throwing knives, crossbow pistol and twenty bolts, grapnel and line, equipment harness, 3 doses of stimm, and a hardened body glove (3 Armour Points to the Arms, Legs and Body).'

**Note:** Moritat Assassins who have remained true to the Death Cult's teachings should strongly consider the Moritat Assassin Alternate Rank.
### **Redemptionist Firebrand**
**Career:** Assassin or Cleric
**Cost:** 200 xp

One of the most common extremist groups, operating without official sanction on the fringes of the Ecclesiarchy, the Redemption is concerned only with the extermination of sin and the punishment of the sinner involved—preferably through the all-cleansing medium of fire. Mutants, heretics, and witches all justly fear the Redemptionist's attentions, but such is their frenzy and zeal, numerous innocents and petty criminals often end up on their pyres as well. In the Calixis Sector, the Redemption is only a real force in the underhives of Scintilla and on the frontier worlds along the Hazeroth Abyss where mutation is a common curse. However, it has recently made gains both among the survivors of war-torn Tranch and among the natives of strife-ridden Iocanthos, where its apocalyptic preachings have found ready converts.

For all their spittle-throwing ravings, pyromania, and complete lack of subtlety, the Redemptionists do have both a fearless hatred for mankind's enemies and true religious zeal in abundance—both qualities that more Puritanical members of the Holy Ordos could appreciate. Few rank-and-file Redemptionists have enough restraint to serve as Acolytes, apt to go off on an incendiary rampage at the first sign of heresy. The cream of the crop, however? Smarter, more able, and less openly "crazed" than their fellows, these make for ideal militant Acolytes for Inquisitors that prefer to take more direct approaches when possible. They are no less fanatical than any other of their kind, though, and once the time is ripe, they spare no effort or sacrifice to see the Emperor's enemies incinerated for their sins.
##### **Effects** 
Apply all of the following to your character:

* **Fanatic:** The Redemption is constantly on your mind, for sinners, mutants and heretics lurk all around you, desperate for your cleansing flame. Others just find you twitchy and easily moved to anger. Reduce your starting Fellowship by –5, and you gain the Interrogation and Intimidate Skills, along with 1d5 Insanity Points.
* **Scourge and Purge!**: Your hatred for the unclean strengthens your will against things that would send lesser men running in panic. You gain the Basic Weapon Training (Flame), Melee Weapon Training (Chain) and Unshakeable Faith Talents.

**Note:** A Redemptionist Alternate Rank is also available for characters who have fully dedicated themselves to the Cult of Redemption.
### **The Sons of Dispater**
**Cost:** 400 xp

Categorical mercenaries if there ever were any, the Sons of Dispater care only for money. For them, every life has a price, and the only determinants of its cost are the station of the target, the difficulty of the kill, and the time and materials needed to carry it out. The Sons started life as a more typical mercenary company taking part in the vicious trade wars that flared up between rival Scintillan and Malfian commercia guilds. It slowly coalesced into its modern shape when the guilders began going after each others' leaders and senior functionaries, the Sons shifting their model from armsmen for hire to targeted neutralisation of well-protected assets. By the time the Peace of Cyrus Vulpa brought an end to the guild wars the Sons of Dispater had built an impeccable reputation providing skilled murderers, duellists, and saboteurs to anyone who could afford them.

Over the years, the Sons have built up a peerless repute for reliability and leathality, and their reach extends outwards from their centre of operations on Malfi to almost every important world in Calixis (and well into the Koronus Expanse as well, as one unfortunate Rogue Trader learned the hard way). The Sons of Dispater make no illusions or pleasantries about their line of work—if you can afford the quoted price, you can have someone killed. There is no further depth or reasoning, their loyalty is strictly to the payment to be made, and as a rule the Sons take no sides in conflicts or offer discounts to repeat customers. In this way, any individual could potentially become a mark, and indeed a few of the Sons' clients have wound up dead when a bereaved associate of one of their victims sends the Sons back after the original client to enact vengeance upon them. 

The organisation does have one absolutely inviolable rule, the only code or guiding principle it has that's more important than getting paid: a contract, once agreed to and paid for, is absolutely sacrosanct. In its early days the Sons' founders quickly realised that an organisation of unreliable turncoats and unscrupulous merchants of death would have a short life expectancy, and so this almost religious observance of the primacy of the contact was established as their most foundational virtue. Indeed, a client who has second thoughts or regrets after the contract is signed has no right to demand the hit be called off—the contract is absolute. The only way a mark survives being targeted by the Sons of Dispater is if they can't be found in the first place. Even if the operatives carrying out the contract are killed before they can do the deed, the Sons will assemble a new team later—usually once "the heat" has died down—to make sure the mark, even belatedly, is terminated. This will also occur should a member of the Sons betray his contract (an extremely rare event, but not entirely unheard of), and the now-excommunicated Son will face the same fate for threatening the "good image" of the group with his treachery.

Knowingly or not, the Sons of Dispater have killed for the Inquisition many times over the last few centuries. All but the most Puritanical Inquisitors would see little harm in enlisting the aid of highly skilled and extremely predictable killers to end the life of a particularly well-guarded heretic, especially in situations where it needs to look like the work of a third party. Sending a Temple Assassin of the Officio Assassinorum after the target necessarily reveals the Imperium's very direct role in the mark's death, and that assumes one would even be available for such a mission in the first place. A victim of the Sons of Dispater only proves that their enemy had very deep coffers.

While any Son would happily offer a contract to an Inquisitor, few if any would ever work for one as an Acolyte outside of an extremely narrow set of circumstances. Most commonly, the Son in question unwittingly took a contract against a member of the Holy Ordos—one of the very, very few targets considered off-limits—and has since been compelled by their masters to serve their wound-be victims as a way to make amends to that all-powerful agency.
##### **Effects** 
Apply all of the following to your character:

* **Consummate Professional:** You have carefully honed the skills of your murderous trade to let you get close to your target, take them swiftly, and get out again just as smoothly. Increase your Weapon Skill or Ballistic Skill by +5 (your choice), and you gain the Common Lore (Underworld), Disguise, Intimidate, Security, and Shadowing Skills.
* **Marked for Death:** The first thing you learn as a Son of Dispater is that the contract is sacred and never to be broken under any circumstances. The consequences for such an act of betrayal are steep. Should you ever reneg on a contract and the Sons learn of your failure (which they almost certainly will if you do not cover your tracks carefully) you will be declared excommunicato and have a death mark placed upon you for other Sons to collect. This applies even if you betrayed your contract at the Inquisition's behest, although your master is unlikely to make such a suicidal demand unless he was already trying to be rid of you.
## **Clerics: Defenders of the Faith**
The following Background Packages are intended for use with Clerics.
#### **Blessed Birth**
**Career:** Cleric or Sororitas
**Cost:** 100xp

The Imperium has a bewildering array of Saints’ days, holidays and festivals. Greatest amongst these is the Feast of the Emperor’s Ascension, the holiest day in the Imperial Calendar. The event is marked—according to the nature of the local cults—by feasting, sacrifices (either highly symbolic or disturbingly real), games, parades, mystery plays, or revelry and many more too numerous to list. Yet there are also millions of other festivals, both large and small. In the Calixis Sector, for example, Drusus Day is widely celebrated, marking the date of his death and mysterious resurrection that proved his blessing by the Emperor.

On individual worlds, other, more bizarre dates might be celebrated, such as Saint Absolar’s Day on Ichovor, where the inhabitants, having spent the year meticulously carving beautiful statuettes of Saint Absolar the Iconoclast, smash them to smithereens on the Plains of Shards, so that the images of the Saint go the spiritual realm and sit alongside the Emperor. On the Hive World of Piety, vast night-time street parades consisting of tens of millions of individuals take place under glowing argon lights every year to mark the death of Father Faithful, an apocryphal local saint not formally recognised by the Ecclesiarchy. Every year these parades end in riot and disorder, but they continue for century after century.

According to the dictates of the local belief system, a handful of children born on one of these holy days are often marked for an auspicious future. They may be deemed to have the attributes of the Saint whose day marks their birth, or they may represent some feature of the Holy Day’s underlying message. Such children are often named after the Saint who shares their day. Whatever the specifics of the individual’s personal holy day, they are marked by the faith of their world in some indefinable way. More often than not the Ecclesiarchy will do its best to bring such august youths into the cloth, as the rare conjunction of their birth and the portents thereof already makes for natural faith leaders.
##### **Effects**
Apply all of the following to your character:

* **A Bold Destiny:** You can almost feel the God-Emperor's smiling visage at your back—He has plans for you. You begin play with 1 additional Fate Point, up to a maximum of 3. Should you already have 3 Fate Points during character creation you may "save" this Fate Point for later. The first time your total Fate is reduced to 2 Points or less you may spend another 100 xp in ritual purification and the renewing of your vows to serve the Master of Mankind, after which you may add this Fate Point back to your total.
#### **The Great Chantries of Tarsus**
**Cost:** 200 xp
**Requirements:** May not have Feral World or Forge World Home World, or Void Born or Mind-Cleansed Origin

The center of the Ecclesiarchy's power in the Calixis Sector is undoubtedly the great Cathedral of Illumination in Hive Tarsus on the capital world of Scintilla. In the shadow of this great edifice to Imperial faith lies hundreds of minor chapels, priories and monastic orders, each serving some facet of worship, pilgrimage, or the monolithic bureaucracy of the Ecclesiarchy itself. Among these are the great chantries, colleges created to train those talented enough (or wealthy enough) for high rank within the priesthood. Many chantries are sponsored by individual noble houses or dogmatic sects who seek to further their own ends by influencing subsequent generations of the clergy. To their detractors, these chantries are at best divisive and, at worse, seditious breeding grounds for heresy or purely secular greed and ambition. Still, their presence and role has become the accepted tradition, and it is a powerful one.

Of the chantries, the Drusine is the oldest and most mysterious. The Scoriaen is a zealous hotbed whose claim is the great number of witch hunters they have produced in the past. Many nobles choose the Vulpine as a dumping ground for unwanted and unruly "children", while the recently founded Ignatian chantry is little more than a creature of the current arch-cardinal, made to consolidate his grip on the Calixian Synod's functionary class.

A cleric trained in a Tarsus chantry is likely to be more politically-minded than most, and likely harbours desire for higher office. Some may see a role within the Inquisition as a stepping-stone to further their personal ambitions, earning the trust and remit of that most fearsome organisation to be wielded at a later time. Others see service in the retinue of an Inquisitor as the true calling in and of itself, providing spiritual counsel to their temporal master and helping keep the faith of his other henchmen as they persecute witches and heretics. In either case a Tarsine Priest makes for a spiritually knowledgeable, worldly-wise, and politically adroit Acolyte.
##### **Effects** 
Apply all of the following to your character:

* **Chantry Priest:** Years spent in the rarefied halls of your chantry with some of the finest religious tutelage in all of Calixis has given you a refined and erudite bearing with good social graces, but you've also come to believe that "hands-on" work in persecuting the enemies of mankind is for other priests. Increase your Intelligence and Fellowship Characteristics by +5 each and reduce your Weapon Skill, Ballistic Skill, and Strength Characteristics by –5 as well. You begin play with the Charm, Common Lore (Ecclesiarchy), Scrutiny (Per), and Speak Language (High Gothic) Skills.
* **Tarsine Alumni:** Aside from religious instruction you also had ample time to engage in congress and debate with many elites and august individuals of the Calixian Synod—a great opportunity to make valuable social connections and ingratiate yourself to your betters. You gain the Peer (Ecclesiarchy) Talent.
#### **Heretical Sect**
**Cost:** 200 xp

The Imperial creed is a faith divided by a thousand different interpretations and traditions sacred across thousands of planets. While any given sect or cult of the Imperial creed may differ in particulars of ritual and the method in which their faith is expressed, all these traditions are bound together by their faith in the divinity of the God-Emperor of Man. On occasion, however, the beliefs of a sect slip beyond the bounds of the Ecclesiarchy’s tolerance, and the sect becomes condemned as heretical. The sect’s adherents are forced to abjure their heretical faith or be burnt, and their places of devotion are cast down, replaced with edifices of more "approved" worship.

Some sects so dismantled, however, live on within the preachers, confessors and priests of the Ecclesiarchy. These ostensible converts keep alive the traditions and creed of their now-proscribed sect, proselytising in secret all while wearing a mask of piety and purity to the dictates of the more mainline priests. This delicate balancing act requires no shortage of cunning and guile, for to be discovered as a wilful recusant is grounds for execution, or worse. 

The clandestine recusants of a heretical sect often immerse themselves in research on the nature and fates of other cults and heretics, desirous to learn what condemned them and how they were discovered. Many are looking for ways to better cover their own tracks, using the records of heresy trials for guidance as to how to not make the same mistakes. Others are more interested in the crimes of what they consider "true" heretics, followers of the Ruinous Powers and those who would cleave unto the dread gods of xenos—possibly just to reinforce that their sect is nothing like those.

Once in a while, the existence of a recusant priest comes to the attention of the Inquisition. Those of a more Puritanical persuasion might consider handing the unfortunate soul over to their masters for punishment, but an individual who is capable enough to have evaded detection (so far) could be quite a valuable addition to an Inquisitor's retinue—assuming, of course, the actual nature of the recusant's heretical sect does not offend the Inquisitor's own sensibilities. In exchange for being allowed to pray their own conscience in peace, the recusant priest can bring their well-honed skill at dissembling, knowledge of cults, and how they evade detection to bear on his new master's quarries.
##### **Effects**
Apply all of the following to your character:

* **Recusant:** Despite maintaining a facade of orthodoxy you have continued to practice the tenets of your heretical sect of the Imperial Creed in secret. This requires no shortage of deception on your part. As a heretic yourself, you have gained considerable knowledge and insight on the ways of those who defy the Imperium's laws—both of other heresies of interpretation as well as those of the "capital 'H'" variety. You gain the Deceive, Forbidden Lore (Cults) and Forbidden Lore (Heresy) Skills.
### **Mendicantine Missionary**
**Package Cost:** 200 xp

The Mendicantine Fraters are an order of Imperial preachers and confessors dedicated to a life ministering to the Imperial fold and protecting the Imperial faithful out among the stars. They are missionaries who travel whenever need or the calling of their faith takes them, be it along the famous pilgrim trails or to all but forgotten and benighted worlds on the fringes of explored space. Fiercely independent wanderers, Mendicantines take and train novices as they find them, teaching them their creed in an ad-hoc and earnest manner as they spread the Emperor's divine light to those most in need. 

The Mendicantine cares not for titles, rights of office, and the pomp and circumstance that so often accompany ranking clergy of the Ecclesiarchy—for him, going to the people and preaching to their daily circumstances to protect them from sin and wickedness is the most important observance. This reliance on providence over doctrine and personality over structure is the cause of some significant distrust within the wider clergy, and many well-situated cardinals find them and their ministries outside of the control of "proper" Ecclesiarchical authorities to be an out and out threat against the order of the Sector Synod. More than a few have privately grumbled about having the Mendicantines denounced as heretics, but only privately—the Mendicantine Fraters have the protection of ancient tradition that holds that their order was founded by no less than Sebastian Thor himself. Between this auspicious patron saint and the widespread respect of the common citizenry they enjoy the Mendicantines have little fear of persecution from their more cloistered brothers of the cloth.

The Mendicantine's staunch independence, world-wise and practical bearing, and strong personal faith in the God-Emperor make them ideal assets to all but the most doctrinaire Inquisitors, and there are a few in the Calixian Conclave who will only try to recruit clerics of this order into their personal retinues. This esteem is often mutual, and many Mendicantine Fraters accept this calling with some enthusiasm, as it frequently presents the opportunity to travel to new locales and directly protect the Emperor's most vulnerable subjects from spiritual harm and falsehood. 
##### **Effects** 
Apply all of the following to your character:

* **Preacher of the People:** You disdain the pompous trappings of the grand churches and cathedrals, preferring to spend your time amongst those most in need of religious guidance. Your travels have taken you far and wide, giving you a broader view of the Emperor's domains than most, and you have cultivated a charismatic and accommodating demeanour despite all the hardships along the way. Increase your Toughness and Fellowship Characteristics by +5, and you gain the Common Lore (Imperium), Navigation (Surface), Scholastic Lore (Legends) and Survival Skills.
* **Scorned Itinerant:** For all the good you've done in keeping the most deprived and forgotten souls in the God-Emperor's good graces the bulk of the Ecclesiarchy's preachers and prelates simply do not care for your heterodox ways and ragamuffin looks. You begin play with the Rival (Ecclesiarchy) Talent.
* **Vow of Charity:** The expense and sanctimony of frivolities like billow robes and rose-scattering cherubs offend your sensibilities—surely the expense of such aggrandising displays would be better spent on directly aiding those in spiritual poverty. You freely dispense the coin and scrip your fellows in the Ecclesiarchy would normally amass, keeping only a modest amount for your own needs. Your generous giving causes you to have a social class of Outcast for determining monthly income, and you generate starting gear and wealth as though you were a Scum. The Mendicantine Fraters will ensure you at least have a missionary shrine to your name, of course.
### **Redemptionist Firebrand**
**Career:** Assassin or Cleric
**Cost:** 200 xp

One of the most common extremist groups, operating without official sanction on the fringes of the Ecclesiarchy, the Redemption is concerned only with the extermination of sin and the punishment of the sinner involved—preferably through the all-cleansing medium of fire. Mutants, heretics, and witches all justly fear the Redemptionist's attentions, but such is their frenzy and zeal, numerous innocents and petty criminals often end up on their pyres as well. In the Calixis Sector, the Redemption is only a real force in the underhives of Scintilla and on the frontier worlds along the Hazeroth Abyss where mutation is a common curse. However, it has recently made gains both among the survivors of war-torn Tranch and among the natives of strife-ridden Iocanthos, where its apocalyptic preachings have found ready converts.

For all their spittle-throwing ravings, pyromania, and complete lack of subtlety, the Redemptionists do have both a fearless hatred for mankind's enemies and true religious zeal in abundance—both qualities that more Puritanical members of the Holy Ordos could appreciate. Few rank-and-file Redemptionists have enough restraint to serve as Acolytes, apt to go off on an incendiary rampage at the first sign of heresy. The cream of the crop, however? Smarter, more able, and less openly "crazed" than their fellows, these make for ideal militant Acolytes for Inquisitors that prefer to take more direct approaches when possible. They are no less fanatical than any other of their kind, though, and once the time is ripe, they spare no effort or sacrifice to see the Emperor's enemies incinerated for their sins.
##### **Effects** 
Apply all of the following to your character:

* **Fanatic:** The Redemption is constantly on your mind, for sinners, mutants and heretics lurk all around you, desperate for your cleansing flame. Others just find you twitchy and easily moved to anger. Reduce your starting Fellowship by –5, and you gain the Interrogation and Intimidate Skills, along with 1d5 Insanity Points.
* **Scourge and Purge!**: Your hatred for the unclean strengthens your will against things that would send lesser men running in panic. You gain the Basic Weapon Training (Flame), Melee Weapon Training (Chain) and Unshakeable Faith Talents.

**Note:** A Redemptionist Alternate Rank is also available for characters who have fully dedicated themselves to the Cult of Redemption.
## **Guardsmen: The Ashes of War**
The following Background Packages are intended for use with Guardsmen.
### **The Mara Landing Massacre**
**Cost:** 300 xp

Mara is a wretched place, a cold world once home to a penal colony now long silent. No one goes to Mara; the space around it is quarantined, the Imperial Navy mounting infrequent patrols to keep any from straying too close. However, such accursed places seem to draw in the unwary and the unfortunate. A navigational error and series of inexplicable techno-mechanical failures caused the troop transport *Vervilix* to enter the Mara quarantine zone and forcing it to land on that frozen ball of wretchedness. Hell was visited on those unfortunates trapped there—what happened in the five days before a Naval search party reached the transport remains largely unknown. Only a few hundred gaunt and haunted individuals survived out of the five thousand Guardsmen that set foot on Mara, and of those, many have been executed for all matters of heresy, while others simply disappeared, unable to live with what they had experienced. For those few who survived, they will never admit that they were onboard the *Vervilix* unless under duress. Only the sealed reports of the Ordos contain the accounts of comrades turning on one another, of walking nightmares, vile scratching and half-heard whispers at reality's fabric, and the incessant buzzing of insectile wings on the edge of the mind.

The dwindling number of troopers who made it through the Mara Landing Massacre are likely to be of most interest to Inquisitors of a more Radical persuasion. These natural survivors have faced some of the most horrendous conditions imaginable and emerged from the other side harder for it, steeled to face whatever threats an Acolyte cell could conceivably encounter. Of course, with the extreme secrecy surrounding the Holy Ordos' knowledge of the *Vervilix* disaster in the first place, an Inquisitor might be just as interested in getting his or her hands on an eyewitness account of exactly what happened on Mara in the first place...
##### **Effects** 
Apply all of the following to your character:

* **Unbroken**: The horrors on Mara consumed the weak, and most of the "edge cases" succumbed to madness or heresy in the aftermath. You were one of the chosen few that managed to persevere against all odds. Whether it was luck, determination, or the eye of the God-Emperor upon you is hard to say. Increase your starting Willpower by +5 and gain 1 Fate Point. You also begin play with the Resistance (Psychic Powers) Talent.
* **Worse for Wear:** The corporeal wounds you suffered in the ice-choked shadow of the *Vervilix* healed long ago—the mental ones are much deeper and still fester. Even now you still find yourself jumping at shadows and suffering terrible nightmares of amorphous, inky masses riddled with teeth and eyes. You begin play with 10+1d5 Insanity Points, 1d5 Corruption Points, and the Horrific Nightmares Minor Disorder.
### **Soldier of the Margin Crusade**
**Cost:** 200 xp

The Margin Crusade into the Halo Stars was launched following ratifying of the Lex Corvinus by the Great Synod Segmentum thirty years ago. This bull granted the power to raise a war of faith under the auspices of High Confessor Corvinus of Thracian Primaris and called upon the Sectors Scarus, Calixis and Ixaniad to provide the means. 

The effort began with a number of successful campaigns that saw multiple crusade fleets consolidate the borders of Calixis, bringing frontier worlds like Kalf and Karrik into the fold. Once the main thrust was launched into the Halo Stars progress rapidly slowed, bogged down by the vagaries of warp travel, dogged xeno resistance, the depredations of pirates upon the supply lines, and—unofficially—the staggering ineptitude of those in charge. Even now the Crusade continues to boil away beyond the Sector's edge, slowly exhausting itself and ever demanding newly-raised regiments from Lord Sector Hax. 

The Calixian lords begrudgingly comply, but only under the proviso that under-strength regiments of veteran troopers are returned to civilised space instead of being consolidated and sent back into the meat grinder. The planetary authorities are thus able to return battle-tested soldiers to their defence forces and militias, sending out comparatively expendable fresh blood to feed the Crusade's insatiable appetite. The soldiers who have returned from Corvinus' sadly ineffectual holy war tend to be more than a little "battle damaged", but have demonstrated great resilience to combat stress against all matters of foes, and the planet-hopping nature of the Crusade has forced them to become quite wordly and self-sufficient. 

Returned Crusade veterans find themselves coming into contact with the Inquisition with alarming frequency. Many agents of the Holy Ordos are quite eager to "debrief" these troopers about what they've encountered out on the fringes, from new forms of alien threats to inklings of heretical cults forming in isolated units. Those of sterner stuff might find themselves being recruited—or impressed—into the Inquisition's service, as capable warriors who've already traded blows with some of mankind's eternal enemies are always in demand.
##### **Effects** 
Apply all of the following to your character: 

* **Battle Scars:** Years spent in heavy combat trying to conquer a frontier world, or being rapidly shuffled back to put down an uprising on another, has left you with a fair amount of wounds, broken bones, embedded shrapnel, and other physical harms. The priests tell you you should wear these like medals, and that seems fitting enough. You gain the Unshakeable Faith Talent but reduce your Toughness by –3.
* **Crusade Veteran:** The Crusade has taken on a decidedly muddled and tousled nature once breaking into the Halo Stars, and you've had to think and fend for yourself on more than a few occasions as chains of command collapse or your unit is forced to operate independently for days or weeks at a time. You gain the Awareness and Survival Skills.
### **Tranch War Veteran**
**Cost:** 100 xp

Even by Imperial standards, the war on Tranch has been a brutal and thankless affair. What started out as a simple mutant uprising on an unimportant minor hive world quickly escalated into political collapse and a catastrophic civil conflict drawing in forces from all over the sector to contain it. Even though the war's heat has quelled now from the quarter-million strong troop landings six years ago that broke the insurrection's back, the slow burning, bitter conflict has continued on a world tainted, twisted, and brutalised by centuries of malice and festering despair. Today the efforts to rebuild the world and re-establish order continue, and fresh regiments are continually cycled-in for tours of duty to brave the fire-blackened spires and the treacherous dark furnaces of the Soot Warrens. 

A deployment to Tranch is a thankless and dangerous task. Officially a "pacification" campaign, peacekeeping efforts in the most ravaged hive strata and the outer-city sprawl frequently flares up into small-scale war when a new band of renegades or insurgents rallies against their oppressors. This often occurs during a garrison rotation, as the weary veterans are cycled out for fresh meat newly raised from Scintilla, Malfi, Landunder, and Baraspine. These entirely green troops promptly find themselves engaged in brutal hab-to-hab fighting, often against twist-brutes and wyrdling witch-kin, all the while trying to avoid inflicting further misery and death on the long-suffering loyalist citizens. A rookie trooper's momentary hesitation could lead to being torn to shreds and feasted upon by scav-cannibal infiltrators, while a swift response to a shuffling in the darkness may end with a frag grenade thrown into a group of starving refugees. Broken by the slow-motion horrors, more than a few Guardsmen reported as missing have actually thrown in with the renegades, their faith in the Sector's institutions and authorities utterly shattered.

Most Guardsmen who complete a pacification deployment and are demobilised back to civilian life speak little, if any, to outsiders about the wretchedness of the whole thing, making "a tour on Tranch" an enigmatic idiom for a terrible thing best left unsaid. Despite this, stories of patrols rent asunder by ravening mutant abominations, night watches carried off into the dark by fiends with luminescent eyes, and sharing rations with destitute citizens who might be just one more missed meal away from descending into sedition fill the veteran-run watering holes and public houses in Hive Sibellus and Skaltine.

The henchmen of more militantly-minded Inquisitors will often loiter about these same establishments, gauging the Tranch veterans and separating out the ones who have "desirous inclinations", like an frustrated feeling of unfinished business or a seething hatred of mutants. These Guardsmen usually require little persuasion to answer a higher calling, one that explicitly allows them to work through their terrible experiences on Tranch with some very violent therapy against the Emperor's foes.
##### **Effects** 
Apply all of the following to your character:

* **Despise The Mutant:** Whatever the mutants' grievances with the tyrannical Oligarchs of Tranch were in the beginning of the conflict are totally lost on you. All you care about are the faces of your comrades as they were butchered and paraded around like trophies, and those of the dishevelled citizens looking to you for protection from the ravening monsters. You gain the Hatred (Mutants) and Light Sleeper Talents.
* **Pacification Struggles:** Your time on Tranch was well into the pacification campaign, and you learned to fear the dark and quiet far more than explosions and gunfire. Instead of the bayonet charges and artillery barrages you had trained for, you found yourself conducting long patrols in burnt-out manufactorums and shepherding dishevelled refugees from optimistically-named "sanctuaries" in the Soot Warrens. You gain the Search Skill and 1d5 Insanity Points.
#### **Witness to the Divine**
**Cost:** 300 xp

It is no secret that the Ecclesiarchy is a vast, bloated, worldly, and corrupt organisation. Uncounted billions are exploited every day in the name of the God-Emperor. Naïve pilgrims hand over their life savings on one way trips that are destined to end on the bone-deserts of Sentinel. Venal pardoners exploit the uneducated with honeyed promises of redemption for trivial sins through the payment of indulgences. Poor masons neglect their families to carve divine images to adorn
the palaces of wealthy Cardinals.

And yet, time and time again, rare individuals have arisen who somehow prove that there is something wondrous behind the Imperial faith. When the faithful feel at their lowest, persecuted by foul heretics or enslaved by malign xenos, saints inevitably manifest, speaking the words of the Emperor himself, performing miracles and shining with a profound inner faith and you have seen it first hand.

There is often no logical explanation for the abilities and actions of these incredibly rare individuals. Proof can never be found of what gives them the grace to achieve such miracles, and so it should be, for proof denies faith. Their achievements are seized upon by true believers as evidence of the divine will and design of the Emperor, debated and pored over for centuries after their deaths.

You have seen a miracle so awe inspiring that it has distilled your faith in the Imperial Creed to a singular, powerful internal truth. No matter what you see the rest of your life you know that the God-Emperor’s power is without question or imperfection.

Such sanctity often begins with a small kernel of true faith. In these last days, few indeed are those who retain this, though many pay lip service to it. There is something about you that is truly different from the mass of humanity. In some way, you have truly connected with or witnessed the divine. Perhaps you were present during some great battle, and saw a true hero of the Imperium, shining with the Emperor’s light, smiting foes asunder in their dozens whilst braving withering fire. Perhaps you were present when an Imperial Saint led a rag tag army of scum and vermin to incredible victory against impossible odds. Or perhaps you witnessed some quieter miracle, the deathpyre conversion of a notorious heretic or the saving of an Imperial ship lost in the warp through the power of prayer.

Although it causes a good deal of organisational chafing with the Ecclesiarchy, the Inquisition often investigates supposed miracles and moments of divinity. Assuming there's no evidence of a more nefarious explanation for these events, a hardened warrior whose faith in the God-Emperor is absolute and unwavering would be an ideal armsman for an Inquisitor of almost any persuasion. 
##### **Effects**
Apply all of the following to your character:

* **True Believer:** Whatever the source of your newfound faith, it is profound and deep, and reaches forever more to the very core of your being. No amount of preformative religious theatrics or memorisation of sacred texts can measure up to what you simply know to be true. You gain the Pure Faith Talent.
## **Imperial Psykers: Translations and Revelations**
The following Background Packages are intended for use with Psykers.
### **A Shadow Over Thy Soul**
**Cost:** 300 xp

There is nothing more dangerous than the unguarded mind of a psyker. A nascent or unprepared psyker represents a delicious prospect to the things lurking beyond and a hideous threat to any unfortunates who happen to be nearby when it happens. The great majority of psykers preyed on in this way are driven mad or possessed, and ultimately are consumed by the warp itself or find their deaths at the hands of Imperial agents. Rarely, a nascent psyker triumphs in his private war against the Daemon by his own strength alone—an incredible achievement. The psyker should expect no accolades, however, for the corruption that inevitably results likely renders him an unsuitable candidate for the Scholastica Psykana. When the Black Ships eventually catch up with him that's usually the end of it.

In the extremely unlikely event that a psyker manages to emerge with only a minimal amount of spiritual corrosion, he may still qualify for sanctioning, and the sanctionite so produced is unusually resistant to the taint of Chaos. Having mentally fought off an actual Daemon already, the psyker is very well positioned to deny the creeping and infectious grip of the warp's malign powers. The secret shadow cast over his soul is a heavy burden to carry, but also a strong shield to bear against the Great Enemy.

To an Inquisitor who persecutes the corrupting forces of the warp, a psyker who can shrug off the worst of its insidious touch could be an extremely powerful and valuable asset. The psyker, however, must be exceptionally careful to conceal the true reason for his resilience from his master, as most Inquisitors would not tolerate one so intimately touched by a Daemon in their retinues. Of course, if the psyker's master is a Radical, it's entirely possible that not only does he already know, but indeed could be the reason why the psyker was accepted for sanctioning in the first place.
##### **Effects** 
Apply all of the following to your character: 

* **Know Thy Foe:** The struggle against Daemonic possession brought you to the very edge of oblivion, but you prevailed where most would have been consumed. Having a Daemon so horrifically close was both psychically and physically excruciating, but it has also given you some significant insight into the true nature of the warp-spawned fiends. The permanent shadow that marks you is also your greatest tool against them. You gain the Forbidden Lore (Daemonology) Skill and the Dark Soul and Resistance (Psychic Powers) Talents.
* **Malign Aura:** No one could survive a Daemon sinking its claws and fangs into them as deeply as you have without the warp's corrosive influence staining their souls, at least slightly anyway. You begin play with 1d10 Corruption Points and 1d5 Insanity Points.
### **The Guiding Light of the God-Emperor**
**Cost:** 200 xp

The only light to guide a mind out of dark places is faith. To many psykers entrenched in a deep and abiding faith in the Emperor, the gift of psychic ability is a curse that can only be controlled by faith. Mastering their powers becomes a holy process, whereby the psyker pits their faith against the temptations of an ungodly will given power, often resorting to corporal mortification to shrive themselves of their failings. Every horror faced, every agony endured strengthens their faith and armours their minds; for they know they can never weaken least they become the abomination they despise.

Psykers whose way is lit by the radiance of the Golden Throne don't simply view themselves as superior to those not so illuminated—these creatures are to be disdained, cast aside, even despised. In his utterly unforgiving glare, the righteous psyker sees only the faintest daylight between those who have failed to grasp the Emperor's all-providing brilliance and the out-and-out sorcerer and Daemon-worshipper. To most Inquisitors the psyker is "only" an especially faithful soul, a good thing to be sure, but nothing terribly unusual by himself. To some Monodominants, however, this psyker's burning intensity is an extremely rare trait, and might give pause towards actually accepting such an individual as an Acolyte. The Monodominant Inquisitor might view the righteous psyker as a weapon more than a person, but in his own relentless pursuit of the rogue psyker and the witch, it's a weapon that's certainly worth wielding all the same.
##### **Effects** 
Apply all of the following to your character: 

* **Psychic Zealot:** Your piety to the Emperor and disgust of other psykers rivals that of any firebrand priest of the Ecclesiarchy. The fact that you yourself are a psyker only serves to further prove how deep your faith in the Master of Mankind goes. You gain the Flagellant, Hatred (Witches) and Insanely Faithful Talents, but reduce your Strength by –5 due to the toll excessive corporeal mortification has taken on your body.
### **Living Nightmare**
**Cost:** 300 xp

The mind of a psyker is, to some extent, an inevitably dark and twisted realm, for it is the resting place of a gate to the absolute anarchy of the warp itself. Each psyker perceives their ability differently, some viewing it as a gift of ultimate power from the God-Emperor himself, others reviling it as a curse that threatens to consume them utterly at a moment's notice. Regardless of what the individual psyker believes about himself, he is an entirely different kind of creature than the so-called "blunts" that make up the vast majority of humanity.

There exist a rare few, however, whose psychic origins are an incomprehensible mystery to even the Scholastica Psykana itself. These singular individuals have vague, ephemeral memories of ancient and terrible things unguessed at which predate man's first crawling steps, and beside which all of humanity are but children still. Occasionally, one might speak of the strange devices humming with unearthly notes wielded by towering figures in stark white rooms lying at the end of unending corridors, but for the most part these "psychic enigmas" keep their strange and inscrutable visions to themselves. 

This is just as well, as the enigma's mind and thoughts are completely impenetrable to any kind outside means. Even the most powerful of the Psykana's Telepaths find only a swirling vortex of colours, impossible geometric architecture, or just a fathomless void of darkness where the psyker's inner voice, memories, hopes, and fears should be. The psyker, for his part, appears to be little worse for wear... A few of the Psykana's Loremasters have proffered that these especially rare psykers may have been somehow "modified", prior to being taken aboard the Black Ships, by powers not yet known by the Imperium, but this is pure speculation at best. 

Despite being a total anomaly even among others of their kind, a psyker whose mind is functionally immune to any kind of psychic or technological probing is an incredibly valuable asset to members of the Inquisition who frequently face the dangers of witches and renegades, to say nothing of the eldritch horror of psychic xenos. Few wouldn't scramble at the opportunity to induct such a singular individual into their service, although there are some who would point out—usually with no shortage of trepidation—that the psyker's mind being unreadable to his enemies is just as unreadable to his masters too.
##### **Effects** 
Apply all of the following to your character:

* **Psychic Abyss:** None can say what has caused your astonishingly rare characteristic, but they all agree your mind is far more protected than anyone else of your kind. Increase your starting Willpower by +5, and you gain the Resistance (Psychic Powers) Talent. Your mind cannot be read by any psychic or technological construct, such as the Mind Scan Psychic Power or Thief of Memory Sorcery. Any attempts to do so only see indescribable psychic abstractions.
* **The Tall Men:** Your unique condition has left you a little more unsettled than a "typical" sanctionite, although unknown to you, the faint visions and voices you experience from time to time are exactly the same as every other psyker with the same condition as you have. You gain 1d10+5 Insanity Points.
## **Scum: Lives Spent in Shadow**
The following Background Packages are intended for use with Scum.
### **Beast House Slaver**
**Cost:** 100 xp
**Requirements:** Feral World, Hive World or Imperial World Home World.

The fighting pits and carnivora offer a bloody and popular diversion on many worlds where the rich and poor alike pay to see bloodshed and vicious creatures do battle for their sport. Such places are often magnets for all kinds of illegal activity, outcasts, and wanderers. Drug and flesh traders peddle their wares, gang lords plan hits on one another, and down-trodden low hivers looking for a visceral thrill rub elbows with spire nobles "slumming it" down in the depths for some real entertainment. 

But where does an enterprising blood pit proprietor acquire the vicious creatures that feature in his headlining events? Even a well-connected operator, flush with narco-ganger coin, would be hard-pressed to hire a crew to go poach a pack of pit-things from the depths of one of Fenksworld's nightmare hives. A shadowy organisation, known only as the Beast House, exists to provide just this service. No one knows who heads the Beast House, nor do many realise quite how far it has spread through the pale underbelly of Calixis' coreward subsectors where its slavers can acquire all matters of "exotic" fauna for their clients.

The Beast House is a secret empire built on vice and suffering. Its true motivations are just as opaque as the structure of the organisation itself—are they simply amoral merchants, providing a service of highly specialised acquisitions, or do they have darker motives beyond mere profit? Both sector and Imperial agents have attempted to penetrate the Beast House's upper echelons to find out, but all efforts have thus far ended in failure. Most are simply expelled when the true nature of their employers are revealed, while those who have gotten closer to the top are made to disappear. Those of a more flexible morality might be offered to come aboard as one of the Beast House's agents. As for the rest, the creatures themselves are always hungry.

Curiously, the Inquisition's Calixian Conclave tends to let the Beast House go about its business with minimal interference. Slavers who get too deeply involved with xenos traders or attempt to use their "pets" against Imperial authorities might arouse an Inquisitor's fury, but otherwise they're just as likely to enlist a slaver as an underworld informant, an infiltrator for hire, or simply for their counsel on matters pertaining to monsters and aliens. For his part, a slaver would be well-advised to be prudently conciliatory. 
##### **Effects** 
Apply all of the following to your character:

* **I Know People:** Slavers often act as the Beast House's direct contact to their customers, managing the "cargo" whilst en route and making sure its new owner is informed of the thing's proclivities and physiological needs. Of course, this offers you ample opportunities to partake in all matters of excesses, whose pleasures almost make you forget the horror of having a stenchbeast in your hold on the way over. Almost. You gain the Peer (Underworld) Talent and 1d5 Corruption Points.
* **Master of Monsters:** When a Beast House client needs a Ur-Ghul or Crurorian war beast for whatever purpose their heart desires you organise the acquisition based on your knowledge of the creature's habits and behaviours. You gain the Melee Weapon Training (Shock) Talent and your choice of either the Forbidden Lore (Mutants) or Scholastic Lore (Beasts) Skills, depending on what it is you've spent the most time tracking.
### **The Brotherhood of Thollos**
**Cost:** 300 xp
**Requirements:** Hive World or Imperial World Home World

Muscle for hire is not hard to come by in Calixis. Depending on how much coin is on the table, this can range from local heavies looking for some booze money and entirely indifferent over who they need to pummel to get it to company-sized assets of crack troopers at least as capable as a typical Imperial Guard regiment. The ranks of Calixian armsmen-for-hire include such storied groups as Pressure Point and Administrative Results, all quite capable of earning their (significant) wages, but none can lean on a reputation as polished as that of the Brotherhood of Thollos. 

Once recruited only from the Infernis gangers of Gunmetal City, the Brotherhood has spread like a stain across the sector with Sibellan narco-gangers and other hardened types from the gutters of the sector's hives swelling its ranks. The Brotherhood offers some of the most professional, brutal, and expensive shooters, heavies, thieves and bagmen that can be chartered on this side of the Halo Stars. Discerning in the jobs they take, the Brotherhood knows better than to anger the Adepta, but is more than happy to partake in the power struggles of the great noble houses as long as they get paid on time and in full. Only the death worlder Mortressan Janissaries could possibly command a higher price, and they're generally booked out well in advance by either the gelt-brokers of the Goldenhand or those with personal connections to the Lord Sector himself.

Not all of those within the Brotherhood are mercenary hirelings. As a full service organisation that can solve many problems for the right price, they also number talented fixers, information gleaners, and black marketeers among their ranks. It is in the brutality underpinning organised crime that most of their members excel. Scum who have learned their trade with the Brotherhood tend to consider themselves "professionals" in the criminal trade, and are used to hard knocks, sudden violence and betrayal. Most also possess a wide network of former employers, old contacts and rivals—a capable directory of who's-who in a field where many would rather go unknown. Streetwise, well-connected, and capable in a fight, a Brotherhood fixer could be an ideal henchman for an Inquisitor whose work frequently takes him into the domains of hive narco-gangs and interplanetary criminal syndicates.
##### **Effects** 
Apply all of the following to your character:

* **I Know People:** You've brokered weapons between narco-gangers, enlisted street thugs as extra protection for guilders running underhive expeditions, know exactly how much to pay off the local enforcers without getting them too greedy, and can probably point out the nearest place to find any kind of vice a person might want. You gain the Evaluate Skill and Peer (Underworld) Talent.
* **Stubjack:** You'd still rather talk your way out of a fight when possible, but mostly because you know it's better for business that way. If it looks like guns are being drawn, you're getting yours out first. Increase your Weapon Skill, Ballistic Skill and Toughness each by +3, and you gain the Street Fighting Talent. The violent reputation of the Brotherhood does make it harder for you to freely mingle with bluebloods and Administratum thralls, however, and you suffer a –10 penalty on all Interaction Tests made with high authorities or formal situations.
### **Cold Guild Courier**
**Cost:** 100 xp
**Requirements:** Void Born Origin

Peerless smugglers among stars of the Calixis Sector, the Cold Guild's business is simple: transportation, mainly of "goods" whose owners would rather nobody else knew what was being moved or where it was going. Its membership is made up of anonymous crewmen, corrupt officials, petty merchants, and even a few ships' captains, and its history goes back to the very beginning of the Sector itself. The Cold Guild's existence is something of an open secret, and though they may be formally outlawed by the Arbites and publicly decried by Chartist Captains, they persist, in no small part, because of their usefulness to many powerful groups and hidden factions—including some agents of the Inquisition itself. 

Of course, the Guild itself plays no favourites. Business is business, and the Guild chooses its customers purely on the basis of how much they're willing to pay measured against the danger or difficulty of moving the goods in question. Rarely bothered with petty contraband, the Guild specialises in high-profit, high-risk cargoes, such as moving guns to Landunder, where all firearms have been prohibited by ancient accord, or stacks of data-coils knowingly infected with malicious scrap code to the Mechanicus domains of the Lathe Worlds. It can be hired to move anything from people on the run, to small cargoes that cannot even pass through more conventional smuggling means. Be it the hunted renegade noble travelling as a corpse on a barge of the dead, to the vilest of most proscribed delights hidden in a fallen priest's aquila chain, the Guild can always find a way to make the crossing, and cares little for the consequences of what their employers might do with something that was worth such a steep price.

Many Inquisitors, who have need of infiltrators and couriers to acquire the highest grade of information, find former Guilders to be great assets. In the hunt for proscribed and dangerous items, an expert eye for hiding places is also extremely useful. Indeed, more than a few Guilders have found out quite by accident that they've been working for the Inquisition all along, smuggling specialised gear to dead drops used by Throne agents operating under deep cover, or unknowingly moving the necessary evidences to initiate a purge of a corrupt commercia concern without the company's officers being any the wiser until it's far too late. 
##### **Effects** 
Apply all of the following to your character:

* **Nothing to Declare:** Your ability to get something between hither and yon without tipping off nosy impost officers and perpetually glaring Arbitrators borders on the supernatural. It's really just a great deal of practice and technique, but nobody else needs to know that. You gain the Concealment Skill and the Concealed Cavity Talent, and increase your Perception by+5.
* **Shipwise:** Much of your life has been spent out in the void, moving from one world to the next with a very important cargo under your care. The needs of the Guild have made you exceptionally adroit at carefully stowing all matters of goods in the places where dockyard inspectors don't look and scanners don't penetrate, often with the assistance of members of the ship's crew that you've enlisted in your efforts. Some of these efforts have been deleterious to your health, however, from inhaling corrosive fumes from a ship's water purification plants to repeatedly entering and leaving cryostasis cells so your very life itself won't show on an auspex. You gain the Peer (Void Born) Talent but reduce your Toughness by –5.
#### **Kasballica Noble**
**Career:** Adept, Assassin or Scum
**Cost:** 400 xp
**Requirements:** Hive or Imperial Home World

The Kasballica crime barons of the Drusus Marches have agents across the Calixis Sector and even within the Koronus Expanse. The combination of ruthless cunning and sheer audacity with which many of these men conduct "business" can rocket the unscrupulous to positions of power well above their station. These "Low Dukes" (as they are mockingly called in Hive Sibellus) are often considered little more than con men and crooks whose influence allows them to rub elbows with the true nobles whose titles are theirs by birth.

When a Kasballica operative gets a little too comfortable pretending to nobility the syndicate's leadership will often attempt to reign him in, as such brazen actions can disrupt proper business and draw unwanted attention from adversaries with deep pockets. Most comply, but the especially ambitious (or foolish) will force the Kasballica to cut ties, forcing the faux noble to operate independently. Rarely, a clever noble will find ways to protect himself, maintaining his position and rising to power on his own—a few have even bought their way into power in their own right, becoming true nobles through largess alone. More commonly, they eventually out themselves, get caught, are brought up on charges, and face imprisonment, execution, or worse.

If an outed Kasballica noble appears to be "redeemable", an Inquisitor or Judge of the Adeptus Arbites may offer him another way out: penance in the form of service to the Emperor. The noble's combination of savvy, ambition, and an ability to deal with other cultures without "going native" makes them an obvious candidate for work requiring deep cover and investigation. The noble's loyalty to his new masters can also be reasonably assured, as he can always be handed over to those who would seek justice on him if he's anything less than faithful.
##### **Effects**
Apply all of the following to your character:

* **Brothers in Trade:** Many of your prior "associates" are still out and about in the less legal precincts of society, and as long as you don't reveal the nature of your new masters they could be called upon to assist your endeavours. You gain the Peer (Underworld) Talent.
* **Do You Know Who I Am?:** Although you're no longer a member of the Kasballica the techniques of manipulation and subtly implied threats you picked up are still sharp tools in your kit. You gain the Blather and Intimidate Skills, and any Intimidate Tests targeting you or a group you're a member of suffer a -10 penalty.
* **Shady Income:** Some of your criminal enterprises continue to run on their own even as you've turned, or been forced to turn, most of your energies to more important tasks. In addition to the normal monthly income you gain from your career's Social Class, your various schemes and rackets generate another income stream each month using the following chart. Roll 1d10 and add the indicated earnings to any other income you are entitled to.
## **Soroitas: Brides of the Emperor**
The following Background Packages are intended for use with Soroitas.
#### **Blessed Birth**
**Career:** Cleric or Sororitas
**Cost:** 100xp

The Imperium has a bewildering array of Saints’ days, holidays and festivals. Greatest amongst these is the Feast of the Emperor’s Ascension, the holiest day in the Imperial Calendar. The event is marked—according to the nature of the local cults—by feasting, sacrifices (either highly symbolic or disturbingly real), games, parades, mystery plays, or revelry and many more too numerous to list. Yet there are also millions of other festivals, both large and small. In the Calixis Sector, for example, Drusus Day is widely celebrated, marking the date of his death and mysterious resurrection that proved his blessing by the Emperor.

On individual worlds, other, more bizarre dates might be celebrated, such as Saint Absolar’s Day on Ichovor, where the inhabitants, having spent the year meticulously carving beautiful statuettes of Saint Absolar the Iconoclast, smash them to smithereens on the Plains of Shards, so that the images of the Saint go the spiritual realm and sit alongside the Emperor. On the Hive World of Piety, vast night-time street parades consisting of tens of millions of individuals take place under glowing argon lights every year to mark the death of Father Faithful, an apocryphal local saint not formally recognised by the Ecclesiarchy. Every year these parades end in riot and disorder, but they continue for century after century.

According to the dictates of the local belief system, a handful of children born on one of these holy days are often marked for an auspicious future. They may be deemed to have the attributes of the Saint whose day marks their birth, or they may represent some feature of the Holy Day’s underlying message. Such children are often named after the Saint who shares their day. Whatever the specifics of the individual’s personal holy day, they are marked by the faith of their world in some indefinable way. More often than not the Ecclesiarchy will do its best to bring such august youths into the cloth, as the rare conjunction of their birth and the portents thereof already makes for natural faith leaders.
##### **Effects**
Apply all of the following to your character:

* **Bold Destiny:** You can almost feel the God-Emperor's smiling visage at your back—your destiny is being guided by His hand. You begin play with 1 additional Fate Point, up to a maximum of 3. Should you already have 3 Fate Points during character creation you may "save" this Fate Point for later. The first time your total Fate is reduced to 2 Points or less you may spend another 100 xp in ritual purification and the renewing of your vows to serve the Master of Mankind, after which you may add this Fate Point back to your total.
#### **Denounced and Expelled**
**Cost:** 300xp

Answering the call to worship, service, and battle, the sisters of the Adepta Soroitas epitomise true faith in the God-Emperor. Each sister is sworn to serve the Master of Mankind, relentlessly trained to excel in all she does, and devoted absolutely to her Order, her work, and the Imperial faith. To say that the Soroitas are an organisation that does not tolerate deviancy or nonconformance is an understatement in the extreme.

When a Soroita shows any evidence of divergence from the orthodoxy she is swiftly counselled by her Sister Superior, often compelled to perform some act of penance and guided more sternly thereafter until she is deemed to be back on the straight and narrow. If a sister commits a serious crime, but one whose severity does not demand execution or redemption via a penitent engine, she may face expulsion from her Order entirely. This fate can also befall those who simply continue to chafe under the rules of the Soroitas, accumulating enough minor infractions that even the most patient Sister Superior deems her to be "unredeemable".

Expulsion from an Order of the Adepta Soroitas is a rare, but not unheard of, event. The expelled sister is heretofore banned from communing with her peers, and is generally forbidden from from referring to herself as a Soroita in the first place, even formerly. Depending on the circumstances of her expulsion, she may or may not be allowed to keep some or all of her equipment and gear, but regardless of any such material considerations she is forevermore an outsider—even for a Canoness, rescinding an expulsion is an absolutely preposterous proposition.

The fates of expelled sisters can be as diverse as the failings that resulted in their expulsion. Some choose to abandon their prior ways of life entirely, becoming religious ascetics or itinerants who informally preach the Imperial Creed in the hopes of redeeming themselves in the eyes of the Emperor. Others choose to "go into business" for themselves, with sisters formerly of Militant Orders becoming highly capable mercenaries and bodyguards, whilst Non-Militants align themselves with benefactors needing their specialised skills of medicine, data processing, and social manoeuvring.

For an Inquisitor the prospect of bringing in an expelled Soroita is a decidedly provocative one. Such a capable expert in her field, and one whose faith in the God-Emperor is (likely) unquestionable, would be a boon to any Acolyte cell in need of her services, and the Inquisition now need not concern themselves with questions of organisational oversight or the potential for conflicts between the sister's two masters. On the other hand, the sister's expulsion in the first place could be a sign of trouble ahead, and at the very least having her within the retinue would make for some awkward social implications when meeting with other members of the Ecclesiarchy.
##### **Effects** 
Apply all of the following to your character: 

* **Banished:** Whatever offences you have committed were grave enough that your continued presence within the abbeys of your Order was entirely intolerable, and you now must make your way on your own recognisance. If you are a Battle Sister, you may no longer use the authority of the Adepta Soroitas to requisition weapons and equipment, and are henceforth considered to be a member of either the Supine or Trading Classes for the purposes of determining monthly income. Consult with your GM over which is most appropriate based on the circumstances of your expulsion from your Order.
* **Guilty, But Not Condemned:** The process of your expulsion was long and arduous, likely with a significant period of confinement, severe questioning, and much debate as to whether you could be redeemed or should face an even worse form of punishment. Your superiors eventually concluded that your life was not forfeit, but you will never again be able to earn their trust and acceptance either. You gain 2d10 Insanity Points and the Resistance (Interrogation) Talent, but may never obtain the Peer or Good Reputation Talents for the Adepta Soroitas or the Ecclesiarchy.
* **Uncertain Destiny:** The superiors of your Order have determined that you may no longer serve as a Soroita, but the auguries seem to indicate that despite this fall from grace the God-Emperor still has plans for you, and it would be the height of impropriety to second-guess His motives. You begin play with 1 additional Fate Point.

**Note:** Depending on the circumstances of your expulsion from your Order you may or may not be allowed to keep the starting equipment your Career is normally entitled to—your superiors requiring you to surrender your equipment when you were expelled would be seen as a consequence of a more serious crime. If you are not permitted to keep your starting equipment, you begin play with that of a different Career as your GM deems appropriate for your circumstances. Suggested options are:

* Battle Sister: Assassin or Guardsman
* Sister Dialogous: Adept
* Sister Famulous: Cleric or Scum
* Sister Hospitaller: Adept
## **Tech-Priests: Cults of the Machine**
The following Background Packages are intended for use with Tech-Priests.
#### **The Disciples of Thule**
**Cost:** 100 xp
**Home World:** Forge World Home World or Void Born Origin

If the Adeptus Mechanicus explorators operating out of the Calixis Sector can be said to have an overall leader or spiritual guide, it is the Archmagos Paracelsus Thule. Many centuries old, Thule's fleet, which disappears out beyond the edge of mankind's domain for decades at a time, is a vast agglomeration of warships, transports and pickets, and many explorator Adepts and Magos have served under his tutelage over the years, passing on his teachings to their juniors in turn. Thule's instruction centres on identifying pre-Imperial human technologies and sets the goal of finding the relics of mankind's glorious past—even if it's something that most would consider was better off forgotten, or even lost in the first place for good reason.

Thule represents a distinctively Radical faction within the Adeptus Mechanicus in Calixis. Dismissing the forgemasters of the Lathes as hopelessly mired in their own superstition and insularity, Thule and his followers present a bold, forward-thinking, and entirely incautious movement that some of his critics consider to be borderline heretical. To a Thulian tech-priest, finding an ancient relic or scraps of completely forgotten knowledge from before the Age of Strife is an invaluable windfall, and if that finding should prove to be dangerous, that's a problem to be dealt with if and when the time comes. The fact that more than a handful of Logician cultists and out-and-out hereteks started off as Thulian disciples before metastasising into something even more dangerous has provided ample points of order for those that would gladly see Thule excommunicated from the Machine God's domain.

Internal matters notwithstanding, the Thulians enjoy considerable power and influence. Many of the great commercia guilds and the trade concerns run by noble houses eagerly back Thule's expeditions, clutching greedily at the baubles of antiquity his followers send back in the hopes of getting a potent new edge on their competitors. Some less Puritanical Inquisitors have also lent their support to Thule's efforts, and a strictly informal alliance of sorts exists between several such Inquisitorial cabals and cadres of Thulian tech-priests. Thule's disciples centre their energies entirely on analysis and study, valuing the acquisition of knowledge above all other concerns. This ruthless curiosity and investigative drive makes them valuable assets for Inquisitors whose own inquests have been befuddled by advanced technological wards, or the incomprehensible nature of xenotech artifices.
##### **Effects** 
Apply all of the following to your character: 

* **Explorator:** Your interests are more academic than material, and would rather spend time piecing together fragmentary remains of ancient data-crypts than forging (or using) weapons. That can be left to the secutors and battle servitors, as your mind is focused on more important matters regarding the . You gain the Common Lore (Machine Cult), Evaluate, Forbidden Lore (Archaeotech), Logic, and Scholastic Lore (Cryptology) Skills, but reduce your Weapon Skill and Perception by –5 each.
#### **The Divine Light of Sollex**
**Cost:** 300 xp
**Requirements:** Forge World Home World

The weapon-mystics of the Cult of Sollex are a warlike sect of the Adeptus Mechanicus who study the art of destruction and specialise in the occult mysteries of photon and laser, finding divine wisdom of the Omnissiah in a fractured spectrum of light. The Sollex grew out of an otherwise minor manufactory on the death world of Haddrak in the northern rim of the Adrantis Nebula. Here, unique crystalline deposits heretofore unknown to the greater body of the Mechanicus can be found amid that world's lifekilling sulphurous plains. The progenitors of the Sollex first sought to exploit these glassy masses for mundane industrial production purposes, only to discover their singularly efficient qualities when used as part of any system that refracts or amplifies light.

From this unexpected technical bounty the Cult of Sollex emerged. No longer mere crystal-prospectors of a backwater death world, export of Sollex-pattern weapons, holo systems, and illuminators made the tech-priests of Haddrak spectacularly wealthy. This, naturally, they attributed to the divine guidance of the Machine God, and from the acid storm-ravaged wastes great fortresses of black basalt emerged, part manufactorum and part temple, stabbing up through the burning skies like monumental clawed hands grasping at the heavens. From within these imposing edifices Sollex techno-artificers work day and night, producing everything from particularly powerful laspistols to enormous arc discharge lamps capable of lighting up even the grandest cathedrals of the Ecclesiarchy. Reputedly, they also work on a strictly commission basis on more esoteric and hidden projects for secretive patrons whose identities are guarded as aggressively as the Sollex's own photonic discoveries.

Seeing the Omnissiah's divine light in their fibre-optic manifolds and lasgun focusing lenses, Sollex cultists believe it is their sacred duty to bring this light to bear against the enemies of the Mechanicus. To them, burning away the unprincipled tech-heretic, the xenos marauder, and the Chaos warpsmith who would dare profane their machine spirits with daemonic spirits is an act of faith and piety which pleases the Machine God. The Sollex are as coldly ruthless and determined in their zealotry to protect the arcane mysteries of the Machine Cult as Redemptionists of the Imperial Creed are in their incendiary fanaticism to torch heretics and sinners. Sollex tech-priests harbour an especially violent loathing of Eldar pirates, as they suffered frequent raids and other alien depredations in the cult's early days on Haddrak. 

As insular and secretive as they are, Sollex cultists often try to keep agents of the Inquisition at a mechadendrite's length, and are typically sceptical of collaborative efforts between their priests and the Holy Ordos. When it comes to persecuting those who have blasphemed against the Machine God, or taking the fight to vile xenos ravagers, they tend to be understandably more accommodating. 
##### **Effects** 
Apply all of the following changes to your character:

* **Militant Sect:** You prove your piety to the Machine God by utterly smiting its enemies with divine irradiance, and spend more time in martial practice and contemplation of the Omnissiah as an engine of war than in the acquisition of more academic knowledge. You gain the Hatred (Eldar), Hatred (Tech-heretics), and Unshakeable Faith Talents, as well as 1d5 Insanity Points. Reduce your Perception and Fellowship Characteristics by –5 each; investigation and negotiation are not the purview of your sect.
* **Praise the Photonic Induction:** Sollex seeks mastery over the manipulation of light itself more than anything else, both to create greater artifices of illumination and to better disintegrate those who would transgress against the laws of the Cult Mechanicus. You gain the Ciphers (Secret Society—Sollex), Common Lore (Machine Cult), Demolition, and Scholastic Lore (Tactical Imperialis) Skills. You also gain a +10 bonus on all Tests made with laser or holo devices (including Ballistic Skill Tests made to attack with las weapons).
#### **Malygrisian Tech Heresy**
**Package Cost:** 200 xp
**Requirements:** Forge World Home World or Void Born Origin

The infamous renegade Magos Umbra Malygris, known to Inquisitorial records as Malygris the Damned, led a widespread and insidious tech-heretic cult that flourished in the Malfian sub-sector three centuries ago. Many great crimes against both Imperial Law and the Cult Mechanicus's own doctrines were laid against him, including the fashioning of forbidden silica animus, corpse vivication and the unleashing of experimental viralstrains on unsuspecting populations to test their effects. Eventually the renegade was tracked down and he and his followers destroyed in bloody confrontation with a joint Inquisitorial-Mechanicus purgation. 

Since then his works and researches have been brutally, but not entirely successfully, suppressed. Despite the sanctions against it, Malygris's lore persists, kept alive in no small part by those tech-priests tasked to hunt down rebellious members of the Mechanicus itself. The absolutely proscribed knowledge is frighteningly tantalising for the more officious tech-priests, and even though it is kept under close guard unauthorised copies and manuscripts seem to keep leaking out. While undoubtedly a sought-after target for Logicians and other out-and-out hereteks, the so-called Malygris Codex is arguably more dangerous due to its insidiously alluring nature to otherwise right-minded tech-priests. An unfortunate number of those following in Malygris' wretched footsteps were first ensnared by the arch-heretic's provocative writings, and this continues long after his destruction.

A tech-priest inducted into the Inquisition who has previously absorbed Malgrisian data walks a deadly line. On the one hand, he is armed with knowledge of occult science few others can match, making him a very able opponent for the dark powers of heresy and corruption. Indeed, there are Radical factions of the Holy Ordos that explicitly endorse turning the tools of the enemies of mankind against them, and those possessing knowledge of the Malygris Codex can find capable allies there. On the other hand, such tech-priests already stand half-steeped in shadow, and are thus in peril for their very souls. Much like his Radical counterparts in the Inquisition, a Malgrisian neophyte, knowingly or otherwise, puts himself in severe danger from his more uncompromising peers who see little daylight between him and the heretics he claims to hunt.
##### **Effects** 
Apply all of the following to your character:

* **Malign Knowledge:** Your examination of the Malygris Codex has given you great insight on the methods and motives of tech-heretics and other cultists who conspire against the Mechanicus. It's also planted tiny seeds of doubt in your mind that could yet sprout into the same damnation that consumed Malygris himself. You gain the Ciphers (Malygris Codex), Forbidden Lore (Warp), Forbidden Lore (Xenos), Scholastic Lore (Legend) and Scholastic Lore (Numerology) Skills. You also gain 1d5 Corruption and Insanity Points each.
#### **Omnissian Apostate**
**Cost:** 100xp

The Imperium consists of two great empires divided by a common faith. The Ministorum claims the souls of the untold trillions who worship the Emperor as the saviour of mankind, and the Adeptus Mechanicus claims the bodies of a lesser part of humanity in the name of their Omnissiah, caring little for the souls of their devotees at all. Although in the Credo Mechanicus, the Emperor is nominally acknowledged as the Omnissiah, some extremists from both factions chafe at the teachings of the other. Many fanatics within the Calixian Ministorum are secretly shocked that what is in effect a massive Empire of heretics is allowed to flourish within the bosom of the Imperium.

Inspired by misguided zealotry and heedless of the consequences such a schism might cause, certain especially devout Ministorum clerics have infiltrated the great Forge Worlds of the
Calixian Mechanicus, seeking to reclaim lost souls in the name of the Emperor from what they regard as a nest of mechanical monsters. These very unsanctioned missionaries set up secret shrines, priest holes and temples in corners of the vast factoria, quietly teaching the Imperial Creed and offering hope to those who have toiled their entire lives beneath belching smokestacks to obey the bland dictates of their part-machine overlords. The Lathe Worlds are a particular target for the Calixian Ministorum, which has historically resented their tremendous power, wealth and influence within the Sector. Turbulent priests seek to destabilise the trio of Forge Worlds from within by creating secret cells of long term sleeper agents, raised from birth to clandestinely kneel before the “true” Emperor.

It is said that no man may truly serve two masters, and indeed tech-priests who deviate, even for a moment, from any outward displays of devotion to their great calling take their lives in their hands, for the Calixian Technomagi would be well within their rights to purge or servitorise any within their realms who cast aside the Omnissian oath. These devout servants of the Emperor become cunning and devious, wise in the ways of the machine in order to allow them to practise their faith in secret. Such conflicted individuals are very rare, and often seek release from the pressures and risks of their immensely stressful secret life by consenting to being assigned to lonely assignments in far flung worlds, or joining cells of Inquisitorial agents tasked with persecuting their common foes. For an Inquisitor having an apostate tech-priest in their retinue is a significant organisational liability, but a master of the machine who can also navigate more "delicate" social settings is a powerful weapon that would be hard to refuse.
##### **Effects**
Apply all of the following to your character:

* **Defective:** Supplication to the Imperial Cult would mark you as an apostate in the eyes of the Cult Mechanicus. You must live a secretive life of furtive worship, snatching moments to commune with the God-Emperor away from the gaze of your peers. You gain the Common Lore (Imperial Creed) Skill, but may never gain the Peer (Adeptus Mechanicus) or Good Reputation (Adeptus Mechanicus) Talents due to your secretive nature. If any orthodox Mechanicus can confirm your apostasy against the Omnissiah you will face the most severe sanctions, and even the Inquisition may not be able to protect you from that.
* **Rational Liar:** You are adept at crafting logical half truths and highly effective lies of omission, which has greatly helped you avoid the detection of your forbidden faith thus far. You gain the Deceive Skill, and may use Intelligence in place of Fellowship as the governing Characteristic when making Deceive Tests.