*"Through faith wars are won, through war faith is fuelled. Blessed are those who slay the xenos, the heretic, and the mutant, for they shall inherit the galaxy."*

— excerpt from the *1673 Divine Scriptures of Man*

Faith as a manifest power is an ability that only the most dedicated of the Emperor’s servants will ever see, let alone command. How and why it works, and just why certain individuals or groups of individuals display it is even less understood than the powers of the psyker or the gifts of the Navigator. In fact there is only a tiny fraction of the Imperium that know it exists. Even within the ranks of the Ecclesiarchy, most priests live their entire lives accepting faith without ever seeing such wondrous miracles as can be performed by those touched by the divine. If there were to be an exception it would be the Adepta Sororitas, the Brides of the Emperor, women blessed with a special connection to the divine and the light of the Master of Mankind. Within the ranks of this sisterhood, the Sororitas live lives of complete dedication to the God-Emperor, raised and guided by his teachings. Perhaps it is this total devotion or their special connection to the divine that grants them the gifts of Faith, or perhaps it is their role as the militant arm of the church and their duty to protect it from its foes. Whatever the reason, the Adepta Sororitas share a special bond with the God-Emperor, and more than any other group within His domain, can channel the power of Faith, perhaps proving their favour in His eyes. However faith chooses its vessels, and however they can channel it to the Emperor’s bidding, one thing is for certain: faith cannot be forced, hunted, or captured, it must be found by a pure mind, a righteous heart and a complete devotion to the God-Emperor.

In ***Dark Heresy***, faith is something that exists all around the characters, influencing their world and the actions of its inhabitants. For them, however, as rare individuals, it can become something more, a force with which their devotion to the God-Emperor is made manifest. This is the role that Faith plays within the game, granting certain characters the ability to create effects through the strength of their religious belief. However, Faith is not available to everyone, even among the ranks of those chosen to serve the Master of Mankind. Only those with the [Pure Faith](the%20power%20of%20faith.md#pure%20faith) Talent may access or use Faith Powers.
## **Gaining Faith Talents**

In ***Dark Heresy***, all Faith powers are represented as Talents, and work much in the same way as [normal Talents](talents.md) available to any character, granting him a selection of unique abilities which he can use during play. Characters acquire these Talents by spending experience points as they would other Advances. The cost of acquiring one of these Talents is listed in the character’s Career Path Advancement Tables. Some Advances simply indicated as "Faith Talent" allow the character to select any Faith Talent they meet the prerequisites for, while other Advances might indicate a specific Faith Talent only. It is worth repeating that all Faith Talents require the character to first have the [Pure Faith](the%20power%20of%20faith.md#pure%20faith) Talent, without which the miraculous powers of faith are completely out of their reach.
#### **Faith Talents as Elite Advances**

Most Career Paths do not include Pure Faith or any Faith Talents—this is intentional, as such miraculous happenings are quite rare. For players who wish their characters to acquire Faith Talents the [Witness to the Divine](background%20packages.md#witness%20to%20the%20divine) Background Package is recommended, as this provides the [Pure Faith](the%20power%20of%20faith.md#pure%20faith) Talent required to use any of the rest. In the event a character experiences a moment of revelation during the game which could awaken such devotion within his soul, the GM should consider allowing the player to purchase this Background Package as an [Elite Advance](alternate%20career%20ranks.md#elite%20advances%20for%20missed%20career%20ranks). If appropriate to the campaign and the character in question, the GM may wish to allow players to purchase additional Faith Talents as Elite Advances. It is recommended these be priced at 400 xp, and only to allow a single Faith Talent to be purchased at each Career Rank.
## **Using Faith**

Characters with Faith Talents can channel their faith into effects, manifesting the power of the God-Emperor and their unflagging belief in His righteousness into protective wards, holy blades, healing hands, and other similar miraculous effects. The main difference between normal Talents and Faith Talents is that to use a Faith Talent a character must spend a Fate Point, tapping into their destiny and expending it to touch the divine. Using a Faith Talent also requires taking an
Action, which may be a Full Action, Half Action, or Reaction as detailed in the Talent's description. If no action is specified then assume using the Talent requires a Half Action. Once these two requirements are met then the Faith Talent will manifest its power as detailed within the Talent description.
#### **Burning Fate**

Faith Talents may also have additional effects if the character chooses to burn a Fate Point to activate it rather than spending one as normal. This represents the character making an impassioned plea to the God-Emperor and reaching deep inside himself to give his gift extra potency and divine energy. In many cases the enhanced effects gained from a Talent by burning a Fate Point are significant, reflecting that even the most fated of individuals will only ever be able to manage this feat a handful of times within their lives.
#### **Duration**

As suits its miraculous nature, Faith is not something that is easily or exactly quantified into hours, minutes or seconds. When a miracle occurs it can last but a moment or persist for days. To reflect this, unless otherwise specified within the Talent’s description, all Faith Talent will last for one encounter or combat. When a combat or encounter is over is always decided by the GM, though usually it will be fairly obvious as battles end or the Acolytes move on to another part of the adventure.

The exception to this broad rule for durations are Faith Talents which either inflict damage or heal wounds (or other maladies) which will typically last only for an instant and end once the effect has been resolved, i.e. the damage is dealt or the wounds are healed. As always, however, the GM can decide to have a Talent last longer or end sooner based on the situation. After all, these are Emperor-given gifts and just as He bestows them He can take them away...
# **Faith Talents**

Aside from Pure Faith itself, there are a multitude of Faith Talents which allow the faithful to perform all matters of miraculous and incredible feats. These are categorised into three different groups, reflecting distinct aspects of the God-Emperor and the methods by which His servants interpret the divine will. These are:

* **The Emperor's Sign:** Wards and symbols used by the faithful to protect against their foes and repel evil.
* **The Emperor's Mercy:** Healing and restorative miracles which can mend flesh and bone as well as grant divine vigour to the faithful.
* **The Emperor's Wrath:** Holy attacks and exorcism with which the faithful can strike down their enemies or banish daemons back to the warp.
#### **Talent Format**

All Faith Talents use the following format:
**Name:** The title of the Faith Talent.
**Prerequisites:** Any other Faith Talents which a character must possess to be able to acquire and use the Faith Talent. Without exception all Faith Talents require a character to first possess the [Pure Faith](the%20power%20of%20faith.md#pure%20faith) Talent.
**Effect:** A detailed description of the Faith Talent’s effect as well as the number of targets is can affect, the damage or level of protection it offers, or any other variables. Note that in a Talent’s description the character using the Faith Talent is always referred to as the ‘faithful’.
**Burn:** The additional effects gained if the character using the Faith Talent burns a Fate Point, permanently losing it to activate it, rather than just spending one. Unless otherwise specified these extra effects are always in addition to those the Talent would provide normally.
### **Pure Faith**

Among the teeming billions of the faithful, a rare handful of individuals are truly touched by the God-Emperor’s divine hand. These servants are shielded from the power of warp by the blessed light of Terra and their own unwavering faith in the destiny and righteousness of the Master of Mankind. Characters with this Talent gain the following boons and abilities:
* They are completely immune to [Daemonic Presence](traits.md#daemonic%20presence) and are unaffected by it. To the faithful, daemons hold no special horror—they are simply a powerful beast to be slain.
* They may spend a Fate Point to ignore a [Fear Test](fear%20and%20damnation.md#fear). This ability must be used as soon as the Fear Test would be required and before any rolls are made. The Emperor's divine might steels the faithful's soul, and while they may be revolted or disgusted by the object of Fear, they are in no danger of losing composure.
* They may spend a Fate Point to avoid gaining any Insanity or Corruption Points for the duration of an encounter. Exactly how long this effect lasts is up to the GM. The Emperor's hand imposes itself between the faithful's mind and soul, and whatever malign influence was about to inflict them is repulsed.
* They mat burn a Fate Point to ignore the effects of a single daemonic psychic attack that affects them. This ability must be used as soon as the power manifests, before they make any rolls to resist the attack or any of its effects are applied. The faithful's unwavering devotion to the Emperor and His hatred for the daemonic creates a brief yet impervious aegis around them which even the most hideous sorcery cannot breach.
## **The Emperor's Sign**

Dedicated followers of the Imperial Creed reverie and worship the symbolism of the Emperor and the sacred marks and runes associated with Him. Throughout the Imperium the faithful greet each other with holy gestures such as the sign of the Aquila, or mark their homes with signs and wards, such as images of the Golden Throne, in order to repel evil. For those blessed with Pure Faith, however, these gestures, symbols, and signs are more than mere ritual and each one can become a potent focus for their single minded devotion and bond with the God-Emperor.

Faith Talents of The Emperor’s Sign are focused on protection and warding, allowing a character with the Pure Faith Talent to enact powerful protective rituals and keep at bay the powers of the warp. With these symbols a faithful disciple of the Emperor can repel warp spawn, shield himself or others from harm, or even uncover a person’s true intent by bathing them in the harsh and penetrating light of the Emperor.
#### **Table: Emperor's Sign Faith Talents**
| **Talent Name**                                                                |   **Prerequisites**†    | **Benefit**                                      |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | :---------------------: | ------------------------------------------------ |
| [Blessed Ignorance](the%20power%20of%20faith.md#blessed%20ignorance)           |      Holy Radiance      | Do not perceive horrifying/corrupting things.    |
| [Burden of Guilt](the%20power%20of%20faith.md#burden%20of%20guilt)             |            —            | It is difficult to lie to you.                   |
| [Daemon Trap](the%20power%20of%20faith.md#daemon%20trap)                       |      Repel Daemon       | Contain a daemon in a warded circle.             |
| [Divine Symbol](the%20power%20of%20faith.md#divine%20symbol)                   |       Daemon Trap       | Resist possession, daemons, psychic powers.      |
| [Holy Light](the%20power%20of%20faith.md#holy%20light)                         |      Holy Radiance      | Emit brilliant light, become harder to hit.      |
| [Holy Radiance](the%20power%20of%20faith.md#holy%20radiance)                   |            —            | Gain resistances to daemons and Fear.            |
| [Light of the Emperor](the%20power%20of%20faith.md#light%20of%20the%20emperor) |      Holy Radiance      | Gain greater resistances to Fear.                |
| [Repel Daemon](the%20power%20of%20faith.md#repel%20daemon)                     | H. Radiance, Soul Decay | Daemons may not approach.                        |
| [Seal of Purity](the%20power%20of%20faith.md#seal%20of%20purity)               |      Divine Symbol      | Ward protects against daemon attacks.            |
| [Soul Decay](the%20power%20of%20faith.md#soul%20decay)                         |     Burden of Guilt     | Target with Corruption Points suffers penalties. |
| [Spirit of the Martyr](the%20power%20of%20faith.md#spirit%20of%20the%20martyr) |    Blessed Ignorance    | Extra Damage reduction.                          |
| [Spiritual Mirror](the%20power%20of%20faith.md#spiritual%20mirror)             |  Light of the Emperor   | Reflect Shock and Fear on enemies.               |
†*All Faith Talents have the Pure Faith Talent as a prerequisite, it is omitted here to avoid duplication.*
### **Burden of Guilt**
**Prerequisites:** Pure Faith

The God-Emperor suffers not the lies of his enemies and in His presence even the darkest of hearts will feel the weight of their falsehood heavy on their shoulders. With this Talent the faithful projects the Emperor’s disdain for deceit so that all who look upon him or hear his voice will feel their own secrets gnawing at their conscience like a frenzied rat hungry for escape.
* **Effect:** Any character that can hear the voice of the faithful, either face to face or via remote means such as a vox, will find it difficult to lie to them. If the character’s Willpower is equal to or less than the faithful’s then he must win an Opposed Willpower Test with the faithful to utter an out and out lie without making an obvious choking or coughing noise. The GM may, however, grant the character a bonus of +10 to +30 depending on whether or not they are merely bending the truth or as a result of the severity of the lie. Characters with a Willpower higher than the faithful are unaffected by this Talent. GM should note that clever NPCs will seldom lie directly, and may choose not to answer or change the subject if they suspect something is up.
* **Burn:** The faithful automatically wins the Opposed Willpower Test. In addition, he may attempt this Talent against those with a Willpower higher than his, though he must still succeed on an Opposed Test as normal against such an adversary.
### **Holy Radiance**
**Prerequisites:** Pure Faith

To stand in the presence of a truly faithful disciple of the God-Emperor is to bath in their confidence and conviction. With this Talent the faithful emanates an aura of purity and devotion to the Emperor that others nearby can bodily experience. This aura will banish fear and doubt as well as steeling hearts and minds against the evils of the warp, giving the followers of the Creed the strength to stand against the foulest of foes.
* **Effect:** All allies of the faithful that can both see and hear him will gain immunity to [Daemonic Presence](traits.md#daemonic%20presence) just as if they had the Pure Faith Talent themselves. In addition, his calming presence will reassure his allies that the Emperor is with them and grants a +10 on all [Fear Tests](fear%20and%20damnation.md#fear) regardless of their source.
* **Burn:** Allies of the faithful that can both see and hear him are immediately freed from the effects of Fear and any ongoing psychic powers cast by daemons. In addition they will also become immune to Fear for the remainder of the encounter.
### **Blessed Ignorance**
**Prerequisites:** Pure Faith, Holy Radiance

Look not upon the daemon, the heretic, or the unclean enemies of the Emperor; it is through your eyes the foes of purity will lay siege to your soul. This Talent allows the faithful to blind himself or others to creatures and objects which would rend his mind or tarnish his soul. Of course, that which he cannot see can still tear his throat out...
* **Effect:** The faithful and a number of allies up to his Fellowship Bonus cannot perceive anything that would either force a Fear Test or inflict Insanity Points or Corruption Points. Such creatures and objects become effectively invisible to them, though in actuality those affected simply cannot look directly at them. This means that the faithful and his allies will not need to make Fear Tests and will not suffer Insanity Points or Corruption Points from such sources. However, this in no way prevents such a creature from attacking or acting in any other way, and should the faithful or his allies attempt to fight such creatures they must do so as if they were [blind](traits.md#blind). This Talent can be used in conjunction with the [Master Orator](talents.md#master%20orator) Talent to affect more allies.
* **Burn:** This Talent can be used retroactively after an encounter, causing the faithful and his allies to completely forget the details of recent events and negate any Corruption Points, Insanity Points, or lasting Fear effects gained as a result of the combat/encounter. Note that a character could effectively "lose" a [Mental Disorder](fear%20and%20damnation.md#gaining%20mental%20disorders) or [Malignancy](fear%20and%20damnation.md#the%20malignancy%20test) gained during the encounter, but the same is not true for a [Mutation](fear%20and%20damnation.md#mutation) caused by gaining Corruption Points—forgetting the corrupting experience does not restore one's flesh once the creeping influence of the warp takes hold.
### **Light of the Emperor**
**Prerequisites:** Pure Faith, Holy Radiance

Open your mind, body, and soul to the light of the Emperor and let it wash away your fear; in His radiance you are protected and none can stand against your hand. This Talent fills the mind of the faithful and his allies with a powerful calm, preventing even the most horrific of things from unsettling them and allowing them to fight the foes of the Emperor with detached brutality.
* **Effect:** The faithful and a number of his allies up to twice his Fellowship Bonus gain a +20 bonus on [Fear Tests](fear%20and%20damnation.md#fear). In addition, creatures with a Fear Rating of 1 do not cause them to take Fear Tests at all. Such is the unnatural serenity this Talent bestows upon the faithful, however, that while under its effects they will suffer a –20 on all Interaction Skill Tests as they fail to read emotions in others and display none themselves, even when it would be completely reasonable and expected to do so. This Talent can be used in conjunction with the [Master Orator](talents.md#master%20orator) Talent to affect more allies.
* **Burn:** The effects last for the entire game session.
### **Spirit of the Martyr**
**Prerequisites:** Pure Faith, Blessed Ignorance

It is through sacrifice and blood that we shall prove our devotion to the Emperor; we offer up our lives willingly in His service so that He may judge us worthy in His light. With this Talent the faithful infuses himself and his allies with the spirit of the holy martyr, strengthening life and limb against hardship so that he might go on serving the Master of Mankind where others fail.
* **Effect:** The faithful and a number of his allies up to his Fellowship Bonus become hardened against injury, especially grievous and mortal wounds. While the power lasts, they add the faithful’s Willpower Bonus to their Toughness Bonus when reducing Impact and Rending Damage. In addition all Critical Damage suffered is reduced by 1.
* **Burn:** The faithful (though not his allies) can ignore death effects from Critical Damage until the end of the encounter, after which point they will suffer as normal. The faithful must still accept the consequences of missing or crippled body parts, and will still die unless they burn another Fate Point if they have accumulated too much Critical Damage.
### **Soul Decay**
**Prerequisites:** Pure Faith, Burden of Guilt

The wicked and the corrupt will rot in the sight of the Emperor’s faithful, His divine light turning their dark hearts to acid in their chests and burning them with their sin. This Talent turns a creature’s corruption inwards, wracking its body with pain and burning its flesh as its evil is reflected back upon it by the blessed presence of the Emperor’s chosen.
* **Effect:** The faithful can choose a single creature that he can both see and which can also hear  his voice, but which may not have a Willpower greater than his or more than twice his number of Wounds. The chosen creature and the faithful must then make an Opposed Willpower Test. If the creature fails then it will be struck with Soul Decay for the remainder of the encounter/combat. If the creature has any Corruption Points it will suffer a –10 on all Tests as it is wracked with pain. In addition daemons and psykers also suffer 1 point of Damage each round that cannot be reduced by Armour or Toughness, until they flee the faithful’s sight.
* **Burn:** The faithful will affect all creatures within his sight with Soul Decay.
### **Spiritual Mirror**
**Prerequisites:** Pure Faith, Light of the Emperor

Fear is the currency of the alien, the heretic, and the mutant; through the strength of the God Emperor and the will of the just, the faithful will repay such coin in kind. This Talent allows the faithful to turn fear back upon his foes and break their minds as the minds of his flock may be broken, visiting upon them the darkest darkness from within their own twisted hearts.

* **Effect:** This Talent will affect both the faithful and a number of his allies up to his Fellowship Bonus. While in effect, whenever they are affected by a result on the [Shock Table](fear%20and%20damnation.md#shock%20and%20snapping%20out%20of%20it), the source of the Fear must also make a Willpower Test or suffer an identical result (as if they themselves had failed a Fear Test and rolled it on the Shock Table). Creatures immune to Fear are not affected by this ability.
* **Burn:** The faithful and his allies must still make Fear Tests and roll on the Shock Table; however they are no longer affected by the results.
### **Repel Daemon**
**Prerequisites:** Pure Faith, Holy Radiance, Soul Decay

Cast out the daemon, the unclean, and the spawn of the warp; from His holy graces you are delivered into the light and from the darkness of the pit your foes will return. This Talent allows the faithful to force a creature of the warp, such as a daemon, to retreat, and with a suitable strength of will keep it at bay, powerless to approach the favoured servant of the God-Emperor.
* **Effect:** The faithful utters a prayer of warding and makes a powerful gesture against all warp   spawn in his presence. While in effect any creature of the warp, such as a daemon, must win an Opposed Willpower Test to approach the faithful closer than 3 times his Willpower Bonus in metres. Should the creature pass this test it must win a second Opposed Willpower Test to touch the faithful. Creatures which are within this radius when the ability is activated and fail the Opposed Willpower Test are immediately pushed to a distance of 3 times the Willpower Bonus of the faithful. This power only repels daemons from the faithful, not his allies, though they can stay close to him to benefit from it. In addition this Talent only repels daemons—it does not harm them, prevent them from using ranged weapons and psychic powers, or penalise them in any other way.
* **Burn:** The effects last for the entire game session.
### **Daemon Trap**
**Prerequisites:** Pure Faith, Repel Daemon

Just as the sign of the Emperor is abhorrent to the daemon, so too are the marks of his faith; these sacred runes are the shackles of the just and the chains of the true, binding and fettering the warp spawn within a prison of the Materium. This Talent allows the faithful to trap the warp-spawned by blessing a specially constructed protective circle with potent symbols against the warp and imbuing it with the God-Emperor's eternal hatred of the daemon.
* **Effect:** The faithful must draw a protective circle on the ground, taking at least 5 minutes. This circle can be no larger in diameter than the faithful’s Willpower Bonus in metres, though it can be constructed out of any materials at hand (chalk, twigs, blood, and so forth). The faithful then blesses the circle. From this moment it becomes a daemon trap, and any daemon stepping into it or trying to cross it must make a **Hard (–20) Willpower Test** or become trapped and unable to leave the circle. Trapped daemons cannot themselves disturb the circle, though they can otherwise act normally. If a trapped daemon attempts to use a psychic power, its Threshold is increased by 10, reflecting the difficulty of drawing from the warp while within the circle. The circle will remain indefinitely until it is broken in some way. A daemon will remain trapped in the circle until it is broken and the daemon freed or the daemon is destroyed and returns to the warp.
* **Burn:** The faithful can construct vast daemon traps up to 10 times his Willpower Bonus in metres diameter. Such traps take at least an hour to construct.
### **Holy Light**
**Prerequisites:** Pure Faith, Holy Radiance

From His eyes the sight of clarity, from His mouth the words of truth and from His heart the light of the just which shines across the stars into the darkest corners of His domain. This Talent summons a divine light from within the faithful which causes him to glow with an incandescent radiance, dispelling darkness and making him hard to look upon, especially by the corrupt or the servants of the warp.
* **Effect:** The faithful burns with a bright white inner light illuminating the area around him as clear as day for 10 metres, and in twilight for another 10 metres. Looking at the faithful close up is hard, and melee attacks, or Point Blank ranged attacks, are at a –20 to hit. At range, however, he does stand out quite prominently, and provides a +10 bonus to ranged attacks taken at Long and Extreme Range. This does more than merely illuminate, however; it also burns those touched by the warp. Creatures with 20 or more Corruption Points, daemons, or psykers which stand within 5 metres of the faithful will suffer 1d10 Energy Damage each Round to their least armoured location. They must also pass an **Easy (+20) Willpower Test** each Round or [catch on fire](injury%20and%20healing.md#fire).
* **Burn:** The effects of this Talent last for the entire game session.
### **Divine Symbol**
**Prerequisites:** Pure Faith, Daemon Trap

With His mark you are protected, with His sign you shield yourself against the dark and with His symbol you lock your soul against the evil of the warp. This Talent allows the faithful to place a divine mark upon himself or an ally, protecting them from psychic attack, possession and other daemonic tampering.
* **Effect:** The faithful inscribes the divine symbol onto himself or an ally. The bearer of the symbol is then immune to [possession](traits.md#possession) while its power lasts. In addition the bearer gains a +30 on all Tests to resist psychic powers, be they from daemons or more mundane sources. Finally, daemons and other creatures of the warp will suffer a –10 penalty to hit the bearer with their natural weapons, such as claws and fangs. This Talent will not work if the subject has more than 20 Corruption Points—such individuals have a gateway in their soul through which the evils of the warp might travel.
* **Burn:** The faithful can affect himself and up to a number of allies equal to his Willpower Bonus.
### **Seal of Purity**
**Prerequisites:** Pure Faith, Divine Symbol

And the enemies of the God-Emperor looked upon His seal and despaired, for in its shadow they were powerless and could only cower before His might. With this Talent the faithful can inscribe a potent and sacred version of the Aquila upon the ground and bless it with the divine power of the God-Emperor himself so that his foes might recoil from its presence and be unable to cross its outstretched wings.
* **Effect:** Crafting a Seal of Purity takes no less than 1 hour to complete and requires a suitable  surface and materials (such as chalk, bones, blood, and so forth). The faithful then blesses the seal. Once blessed no daemon or creature of warp can cross the seal or any point within 10 metres of it (for this reason seals are often placed on doors, bridges and the like). Nor can daemons disturb the seal directly, although human thralls certainly can. Finally, psychic powers used by daemons cannot cross the seal, their effects negated if their target or area of effect lies beyond it. The seal will remain active and in place until it is broken.
* **Burn:** The seal will also repel any creature with a strong connection to the warp, including creatures with 20 or more Corruption Points or a Psy Rating of 3 or greater.
## **The Emperor's Mercy**

It is taught that the Emperor can show mercy just as he may show wrath. For His avowed followers faith can mend wounds, heal minds, and strengthen souls against the degradations and decay of the warp. Mercy is not always kind or gentle, however, and those that beseech the Master of Mankind for clemency or respite may well find it stern, bloody, and final. The servants of the Ecclesiarchy accept this as their due and pass such mercies on to their flock as the just rewards of a lifetime’s service to the God-Emperor; a service that can only be truly fulfilled in death.

Faith Talents of The Emperor’s Mercy are focused on mending the body, minds, and souls of the faithful, though usually at a cost, as only in sacrifice can one serve the Emperor. Mercy Talents can also harden the body and mind against terrible trials and impart divine strength and fortitude when in the service of the God-Emperor, so that the faithful may complete vital tasks despite suffering hideous wounds at the hands of His adversaries.
#### **Table: Emperor's Mercy Faith Talents**
| **Talent Name**                                                                          |         **Prerequisites**†          | **Benefit**                                                           |
| ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | :---------------------------------: | --------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [Divine Endurance](the%20power%20of%20faith.md#divine%20endurance)                       |                  —                  | Ignore the effects of Fatigue.                                        |
| [Divine Ministration](the%20power%20of%20faith.md#divine%20ministration)                 |            Martyr's Gift            | Add WP bonus to healing Tests.                                        |
| [Grace](the%20power%20of%20faith.md#grace)                                               |                  —                  | Share Fate Points with allies.                                        |
| [Martyr's Gift](the%20power%20of%20faith.md#martyr's%20gift)                             |                  —                  | Heal others but suffer equivalent Damage.                             |
| [Mental Calm](the%20power%20of%20faith.md#mental%20calm)                                 |                Grace                | Reduce recent Insanity Points.                                        |
| [Miraculous Recovery](the%20power%20of%20faith.md#miraculous%20recovery)                 |         Divine Ministration         | Completely heal allies overnight.                                     |
| [No Rest for the Faithful](the%20power%20of%20faith.md#no%20rest%20for%20the%20faithful) |               Respite               | Ignore critical injuries or death in combat.                          |
| [Respite](the%20power%20of%20faith.md#respite)                                           |          Divine Endurance           | Ally ignores Fatigue, Critical Damage.                                |
| [Resurrection](the%20power%20of%20faith.md#resurrection)                                 | Div. Min., No Rest for the Faithful | Burning Fate Point to avoid death also completely heals and restores. |
| [Revelation](the%20power%20of%20faith.md#revelation)                                     |             Mental Calm             | Ignore effects of Fear, psychic powers.                               |
| [Spiritual Cleansing](the%20power%20of%20faith.md#spiritual%20cleansing)                 |          Divine Endurance           | Reduce recent Corruption Points.                                      |
†*All Faith Talents have the Pure Faith Talent as a prerequisite, it is omitted here to avoid duplication.*
### **Grace**
**Prerequisites:** Pure Faith

The child of the man holds within him the seed of the God-Emperor’s divinity, which may be nurtured and grown only through the power of true faith. With this Talent the faithful imparts a fragment of his divine connection to the God-Emperor onto his allies, blessing them with a powerful Grace to shape their destiny and protect them from harm.
* **Effect:** The faithful can choose to share his Fate Points with his allies, allowing him to spend a Fate Point to allow an ally that he can see to re-roll a failed Test. In addition to this effect the faithful also strengthens his own fate, and will recover any Fate Points used in this encounter (including the one spent to activate this Talent) on a 1d10 roll of 8, 9 or 10. If the faithful happens to be a Void Born this roll replaces the roll from the Charmed Trait. This Talent only works on humans (i.e. not mutants, xenos, or heavily augmented Tech-Priests) and only on those with 20 or fewer Corruption Points.
* **Burn:** In addition to the above effects, at the end of the encounter every ally that the faithful can see regains one spent Fate Point and immediately regains a further spent Fate Point on a 1d10 roll of 8, 9 or 10.
### **Martyr's Gift**
**Prerequisites:** Pure Faith

Only through pain and blood is the body made pure, its fragile flesh made whole through the sacrifice of the faithful and the tears of the willing martyr. With this Talent the faithful can heal the injured, knitting together wounds and mending splintered bones. Such a great gift comes with a heavy price, however, and for every injury the faithful restores he will himself suffer a similar wound, effectively taking it from the injured and suffering in their place. Such selflessness is pleasing to the Emperor, for He has suffered more for Mankind than anyone can possibly know.
* **Effect:** The faithful can heal wounded creatures by laying on his hands and taking their injuries onto himself. This is a Full Action and requires the subject to remain perfectly still—they may take no Actions themselves during this time. The faithful can then transfer any amount of Damage from the subject to themselves at ratio of 1:1. The faithful can also transfer Critical Damage from the subject in the same way, suffering 5 Wounds for each Critical Effect healed, while the subject's body will be miraculously restored. Note that it is entirely possible for the faithful to kill himself if he uses this Talent to heal multiple critically wounded subjects (although this would certainly be a persuasive argument for him to be considered a martyr himself). If the faithful suffers Critical Damage from healing it is considered Energy Damage.
* **Burn:** The faithful may use this Talent to revive the recently deceased as if they had [burned a Fate Point to avoid death](fate.md#burning%20fate), although their body must be reasonably intact to attempt this feat. Doing so, however, will be ruinous, and possibly even fatal, for the faithful. Upon performing this act the faithful immediately suffers 1d10 Critical Damage which is not reduced by Armour or Toughness Bonus.
### **Divine Endurance**
**Prerequisites:** Pure Faith

In the service of the God-Emperor a man will endure as the Imperium has endured and he will stand unbowed and unbroken as has the Imperium has stood. With this Talent the faithful imparts the ageless endurance of the Imperium, the realm of the God-Emperor, into his allies, allowing them to press on even when their bodies grow tired or their limbs weary—motivated by visions of the glory of the Emperor’s eternal domain.
* **Effect:** The faithful can grant this ability to himself and a number of his allies equal to his Fellowship Bonus. While it lasts, both the faithful and his allies will ignore any Fatigue levels they suffer, regardless of the source. In addition, any Fatigue levels they may have already suffered are ignored for the duration of the ability. At the GM’s discretion he may extend the duration of this ability to last for the course of a journey, provided it is for a suitably holy purpose, such as a trek across a world or climbing a mountain. This Talent can be used in conjunction with the [Master Orator](talents.md#master%20orator) Talent to affect more allies.
* **Burn:** Those affected by Divine Endurance also again the [Unnatural Toughness (+4)](traits.md#unnatural%20characteristic%20%28X%29) Trait for the duration of the encounter.
### **Respite**
**Prerequisites:** Pure Faith, Divine Endurance

The strong are bolstered by the word of the God-Emperor and the prayers of the faithful. With an open heart and a vengeful mind the songs of the just will lift him up and allow him to soar like a holy warrior striking fear into the souls of the unclean. With this Talent the faithful may pray for one of his allies, granting them the strength and spirit to overcome their wounds, cast off their mortal shackles, and push on to the very edge of death itself.
* **Effect:** The faithful may choose a single ally which can both see him and hear his voice. As long as the faithful then spends a Full Action each round praying, the ally will gain respite from his injuries, ignoring the effects of Fatigue and even Critical Damage. Note, however, that this does not heal the subject in any way, and missing limbs, blood loss, and the like will continue to affect them. It also does not prevent the subject from dying if they suffer a fatal Critical Effect.
* **Burn:** The faithful may affect a number of allies up to twice his Fellowship Bonus.
### **Divine Ministration**
**Prerequisites:** Pure Faith, Martyr's Gift

Blessed are the hands of the healer that they may restore the enervated bodies of the faithful and send them back into the fray. This Talent allows the faithful to enhance his healing abilities and dispel the effects of fatigue upon his allies, restoring their vigour and allowing them to continue to bring death and ruin to the God-Emperor’s foes.
* **Effect:** The faithful can use this Talent to add their Willpower Bonus to the amount of Damage they heal using the [Medicae](skills.md#medicae) Skill. This ability only works once for each Test made, though it may be activated after the faithful has successfully passed a Skill Test, and may effect multiple Skill Tests performed on multiple targets in succession. Alternatively, the faithful may use this Talent to remove all levels of Fatigue from allies who can both see him and hear his voice. Finally, such is the intuitive healing ability this Talent imparts on the faithful that all Medicae Tests, even those made without activating the Talent, are made easier by one step (i.e. Difficult (–10) Tests become Challenging (+0), Challenging (+0) become Routine (+10), and so forth). This Talent only works on subjects with 20 or fewer Corruption Points.
* **Burn:** The faithful restores all Wounds to a single ally when using the Medicae Skill to heal them.
### **Miraculous Recovery**
**Prerequisites:** Pure Faith, Divine Ministration

Potent is the power of the God-Emperor that even the greatest of injuries and the most grievous of wounds are as nothing when bathed in his divine light. This Talent allows the faithful to perform a miraculous healing and mend broken limbs, torn flesh, and ruined body parts. The strain this puts on the faithful is considerable, however, and few can perform such a feat—or receive, for that matter—without some other harm coming to them in turn.
* **Effect:** The faithful can remove a crippling injury from a creature by spending a night praying over their body and beseeching the aid of the God-Emperor. In the morning the creature can remove a single crippling injury, such as a broken limb or blinded eyes, their bodily functions miraculously restored. This Talent cannot be used to restore body parts that have been completely removed or destroyed, however. Such is the strain of this ritual on both the faithful and the subject that upon its completion both will suffer 1d5 Insanity Points which cannot be prevented in any way, even with the use of other Faith Talents. Only subjects with 20 or fewer Corruption Points can benefit from this Talent.
* **Burn:** This functions in much the same way, but even missing body parts can be restored.
### **Mental Calm**
**Prerequisites:** Pure Faith, Grace

Clear your mind of fear, madness and decay; in the service of the God-Emperor no man need carry humanity’s burden alone—we are the enduring community of Mankind, and the rightful masters of the galaxy. This Talent allows the faithful to wash away recent horrors and reinforce a sense of purpose and might in his followers, focusing their minds to the single task of service to the God-Emperor and the providence of his domains.
* **Effect:** The faithful can use this Talent as a Full Action in the Round after he or any of his allies gain Insanity Points. The ability washes away the taint of madness, negating 1d5 Insanity Points gained by either the faithful, or one of his allies, in the previous Round. In addition, the calm instilled by this ability will remain for the rest of the encounter, reducing any further Insanity Point gains by 1.
* **Burn:** The Talent will affect both the faithful and a number of his allies up to twice his Fellowship Bonus.
### **Spiritual Cleansing**
**Prerequisites:** Pure Faith, Divine Endurance

Your body is a temple to the God-Emperor, your blood and bones your sacrament, your soul a symbol of your faith; let none foul your temple lest your faith be likewise fouled. This Talent allows the faithful to purge his soul of some of the taint of the warp, casting off a portion of its dark power before it has time to take root and begin the slow decay of spirit.
* **Effect:** The faithful can use this Talent as a Full Action in the Round after he or any of his allies gain Corruption Points. The ability purges the touch of the warp, negating 1d5 Corruption Points gained by either the faithful, or one of his allies, in the previous Round. In addition, the wards against the warp invoked with this ability will remain for the rest of the encounter and reduce any further Corruption Point gains by 1. Characters with 20 or more Corruption Points cannot benefit from this ability—they are too far gone already.
* **Burn:** The Talent will affect both the faithful and a number of his allies up to twice his Fellowship Bonus.
### **Revelation**
**Prerequisites:** Pure Faith, Mental Calm

Free the mind from doubt, fear, and darkness. Look to the light of the God-Emperor and let his divine presence remind you of your purpose—you are the faithful of the Imperium and you cannot falter in the face of its foes. This Talent allows the faithful to free his mind, or that of his allies, from the grip of fear or the invasive powers of the psyker, restoring them to clarity and control.
* **Effect:** The faithful uses this ability as a Full Action, affecting both himself and a number of allies equal to his Fellowship Bonus that can both see and hear him. Those affected will immediately overcome the effects of [Fear](fear%20and%20damnation.md#fear) (i.e., the results of their roll on the [Shock Table](fear%20and%20damnation.md#shock%20and%20snapping%20out%20of%20it)) and may act normally on their following turn. In addition, recipients of this ability may also make a Willpower Test to free themselves of any ongoing psychic powers afflicting them. This Talent can be used in conjunction with the [Master Orator](talents.md#master%20orator) Talent to affect more allies.
* **Burn:** Those affected by this ability automatically pass all Fear Tests for the remainder of the encounter.
### **No Rest for the Faithful**
**Prerequisites:** Pure Faith, Respite

Only in death does duty to the God-Emperor end, and only when faith is extinguished will you truly die. With this Talent the faithful push themselves beyond the frailties of their mortal frames, shaking off wounds, casting aside injury, and ignoring pain so that they may serve His will until the bitter end. Such devotion has a steep price, and once the faithful’s task is done his body may never fully recover.
* **Effect:** With this ability the faithful and a number of his allies up to his Fellowship Bonus may ignore the effects of [critical injuries](injury%20and%20healing.md#critical%20damage) for the duration of the encounter, with the exception of those that would result in limb loss or death. However, should they suffer a critical effect that would result in death they can instead choose to permanently lose 1d10 Toughness and choose to suffer another lesser Critical Effect (of the GM’s choosing) to the same body location and of the same Damage type as the one that would have killed them. This ability is hugely taxing, and once the encounter ends any of those who have benefited from it will immediately gain 1d5 levels of Fatigue.
* **Burn:** Those affected by this ability may ignore the effects of limb loss just as with other types of critical damage, but only for the duration of the encounter, after which the critical damage will take effect (i.e. a lost limb kept functioning for the battle will now return to its crippled or maimed state).
### **Resurrection**
**Prerequisites:** Pure Faith, Divine Ministration, No Rest for the Faithful

And he rose anew, as if lifted from the grave by the hand of the God-Emperor, restored by divine providence and ready once again to face the foes of mankind. With this Talent the faithful channels the power of his faith into a fallen comrade, filling their broken frame with life and purpose and tasking them once more with carrying on the Emperor’s holy crusade against the mutant and the alien.
* **Effect:** Whenever the faithful or one of his allies (who can hear him) [burns a Fate Point to avoid death](fate.md#burning%20fate) he may use this ability to revitalise them. The target is immediately restored to full Wounds, has all Critical Damage and levels of Fatigue removed, crippled limbs and blindness are healed (though not lost limbs), and the effects of any toxins are negated. 
* **Burn:** For the duration of the encounter (provided the faithful is alive) whenever the faithful or his allies burn Fate to avoid death they will benefit from the effects of Resurrection.
## **The Emperor's Wrath**

As all those who follow the Imperial Creed know, the Emperor is a vengeful god, quick to smite and slow to forgive those who trespass against the faith. Those that stray from the teaching of the God-Emperor, or sin against his holy word, are prone to find torment and destruction at the hands of his faithful. In fact it is part of the Cult of the Emperor that all those who swear allegiance to the Golden Throne suffer not the unbelievers, heretics, and sinners to live within his sight, seeking them out where they hide beneath the skin of the Imperium and cleansing them in purifying flame. The Emperor’s wrath is ever plentiful and his servants every ready to vent it on his foes.

Faith Talents of The Emperor’s Wrath are focused on destroying to the foes of the Emperor: the alien, the heretic, and the daemon. With these Talents the faithful can strengthen their sword arms, guide their bolt shells, and create blessed promethium with which to burn enemies to ash. Those especially skilled in channelling the wrath of the Emperor can even exorcise daemons, casting them out of their mortal shells and hurling them back into the warp.
#### **Table: Emperor's Wrath Faith Talents**
| **Talent Name**                                                                    |         **Prerequisites**†          | **Benefit**                                                            |
| ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | :---------------------------------: | ---------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [Divine Guidance](the%20power%20of%20faith.md#divine%20guidance)                   |       Wrath of the Righteous        | Ignore penalties on ranged attacks.                                    |
| [Divine Touch](the%20power%20of%20faith.md#divine%20touch)                         |     The Passion, Div. Guidance      | Cause Critical Injury with touch attack.                               |
| [Flames of Faith](the%20power%20of%20faith.md#flames%20of%20faith)                 |       Wrath of the Righteous        | Bless fires to inflict extra Damage.                                   |
| [Hand of the Emperor](the%20power%20of%20faith.md#hand%20of%20the%20emperor)       |                  —                  | Gain Unnatural Strength.                                               |
| [Might of the Emperor](the%20power%20of%20faith.md#might%20of%20the%20emperor)     |  Hand of the Emperor, The Passion   | Gain bonuses to physical Characteristics but penalties to mental.      |
| [The Passion](the%20power%20of%20faith.md#the%20passion)                           |           Divine Guidance           | Gain Unnatural Agility, Speed.                                         |
| [Religious Hysteria](the%20power%20of%20faith.md#religious%20hysteria)             |          Righteous Frenzy           | Preach to a crowd to incite it into a mob you guide.                   |
| [Righteous Frenzy](the%20power%20of%20faith.md#righteous%20frenzy)                 | Wrath of the Righteous, The Passion | Allies gain Frenzy.                                                    |
| [Soul Storm](the%20power%20of%20faith.md#soul%20storm)                             |    Divine Touch, Flames of Faith    | Blast damages daemons, psykers, enemies with Corruption Points.        |
| [The Unforgiving Blade](the%20power%20of%20faith.md#the%20unforgiving%20blade)     |       Wrath of the Righteous        | Bless melee weapons with extra Damage, Penetration.                    |
| [Wrath of the Righteous](the%20power%20of%20faith.md#wrath%20of%20the%20righteous) |                  —                  | Melee attacks inflict extra Damage, greater chance for Righteous Fury. |
†*All Faith Talents have the Pure Faith Talent as a prerequisite, it is omitted here to avoid duplication.*
### **Wrath of the Righteous**
**Prerequisites:** Pure Faith

May the God-Emperor guide my hand toward the foes that I might rend him with my righteous indignation, breaking his bones, spilling his blood, and piercing his flesh with my faith. This ability focuses the faithful’s Emperor-born rage into his attacks, channelling His divine anger and wrath into each stroke of his blade as he fells the heretics and the unbelievers.
* **Effect:** With this Talent the faithful and a number of his allies up to his Fellowship Bonus which can both see him and hear his voice are filled with the Emperor’s wrath. This causes all melee attacks, including those made when [fighting unarmed](combat.md#unarmed%20combat), to inflict an additional 1d5 Damage. In addition, this Talent also increases the chances of melee attacks inflicting [Righteous Fury](combat.md#righteous%20fury!), so that it occurs on a natural roll of 9 or 10 rather than just 10. Note, however, that this only affects the first Damage roll to trigger Righteous Fury—the subsequent open Damage rolls must still roll a 10 as usual. This Talent can be used in conjunction with the [Master Orator](talents.md#master%20orator) Talent to affect more allies.
* **Burn:** The extra Damage from Wrath of the Righteous is increased from 1d5 to 2d10.
### **Hand of the Emperor**
**Prerequisites:** Pure Faith

And lo, the hand of the God-Emperor came down upon the heretic, the mutant, and the alien, crushing them beneath His fury and revealing to them the folly of their ways. This ability charges the faithful with a potent strength, binding his frame in divine energies and strengthening bone and muscle so that he might better crush his foes with mighty blows and unforgiving brutality.
* Effect: The faithful and a number of his allies up to his Fellowship Bonus are filled with the might of the God-Emperor, increasing their strength and physical power to crush His foes. All those affected gain the [Unnatural Strength (+4)](traits.md#unnatural%20characteristic%20%28X%29) Trait as their muscles swell and harden. However, those unaccustomed to such a musclebound form will find their flexibility and speed notably hampered. Anyone affected by this Talent reduces their Agility Bonus by 2 for the duration of the ability, which will also lower their [Movement rates](movement.md#structured%20and%20narrative%20time) and [Initiative](combat.md#initiative).
* Burn: The Unnatural Strength Trait increases from (+4) to (+8).
### **Divine Guidance**
**Prerequisites:** Pure Faith, Wrath of the Righteous

Let the Emperor guide my aim, let His eye be my eye as I fire my weapon at the foes of the Imperium, so that my shots might strike true and send my enemies to their damnation. This ability guides the aim of the faithful so that they sense, more than see, when to fire at the enemy. Aided by divine providence sent by the Emperor Himself, their shots strike home with supernatural accuracy over extreme distances or even in the pitch-dark.
* **Effect:** With this Talent the faithful and a number of his allies up to his Fellowship Bonus can be blessed with incredible feats of marksmanship. Those affected can ignore a single range penalty, regardless of size, when making ranged attacks. For example, they could choose to make a [Called Shot](combat.md#called%20shot%20%28full%20action%29) and ignore the –20 to hit, or fire at a target at [Extreme Range](combat.md#range) and ignore the –30 to hit, but not both at the same time. In addition, there is a chance that a good shot may bypass the target’s armour, finding a chink or hole that only the God-Emperor's blessed aim could guide a round through. If the faithful or his allies successfully inflict [Righteous Fury](combat.md#righteous%20fury!) with a ranged attack, they may choose to ignore the usual effects and instead bypass the target’s Armour, effectively only reducing Damage based on the target’s Toughness Bonus. Field effects still work as usual, however.
* **Burn:** The faithful and his allies ignore all penalties to hit with ranged weapons provided they do not exceed a total of –60 to hit—any combination of circumstances which would increase the penalty above –60 is simply an impossible shot. In addition, they may fire blind (such as around corners or into darkness) without penalty, though they must sill be aware of the presence of a target and its general direction for the shots to hit. Finally, if a target is protected by a field effect and the field would have stopped or negated the attack, roll Damage anyway. If the attack successfully inflicts Righteous Fury the extra Damage is discarded and the attack instead penetrates the field along with the target's Armour as described above.
### **The Passion**
**Prerequisites:** Pure Faith, Divine Guidance

Your love for the God-Emperor will know no bounds, His glory will fill your heart to bursting and you will run and scream with joy at the sound of His name; filled with His divine light you are a tireless warrior of the Imperium and a holy instrument of the faith. This ability infuses the faithful with a powerful vigour and energy, allowing him and his allies to move in a frenzy of righteous speed so that they might better reach their foes and rend them to pieces in the Emperor's name.
* **Effect:** The faithful and a number of his allies up to his Fellowship Bonus are gifted with a fathomless passion for serving the God-Emperor, increasing their agility and speed. All those affected gain the [Unnatural Agility (+4)](traits.md#unnatural%20characteristic%20%28X%29) and [Unnatural Speed (+4)](traits.md#unnatural%20speed%20%28X%29) Traits as their limbs quicken and their movement becomes blurred—note that this increases their [Initiative](combat.md#initiative) as well. In addition, such is their zeal that they react to attacks with blinding speed and a preternatural sense for danger, gaining a +10 to both [Dodge](skills.md#dodge) and [Parry](combat.md#parry%20%28reaction%29) Tests, and allowing them to roll two dice and choose the highest when determining Initiative.
* **Burn:** The Unnatural Agility and Unnatural Speed Traits increase from (+4) to (+8).
### **Flames of Faith**
**Prerequisites:** Pure Faith, Wrath of the Righteous

Holy is the flame of the Emperor, that it might burn away the evil of his enemies, and cast those spawned from the warp back into their places of freezing darkness and unending night. This Talent places a powerful blessing on the fires of the faithful, making them burn more fiercely and becoming especially destructive to daemons and creatures of the immaterium.
* **Effect:** As a Full Action the faithful may bless a burning fire up to twice his Fellowship Bonus in metres diameter, a clip of incendiary ammunition (including things like a grenade) or a weapon that directly creates fire, such as a flamer or Exterminator. Such blessed fire then burns hotter and will inflict an additional 1d10 Damage on all those that come into contact with it. It also has a greater chance of setting things on fire, imposing a –10 penalty to Agility Tests by those who are touched by it to avoid bursting into flame. Finally, it is a fell weapon when used against daemons, inflicting a further 1d10 Damage and counting as a Holy attack when used against them.
* **Burn:** The fires burn hotter still. They inflict 2d10 additional Damage rather than 1d10, and all Damage they inflict is considered Explosive rather than Energy, the extreme heat literally causing the air itself to explode and blasting the target into charred bits.
### **Righteous Frenzy**
**Prerequisites:** Pure Faith, Wrath of the Righteous, The Passion

Never forget the righteousness of our cause, for to waver in our conviction to the God-Emperor is to invite His foes into our hearts and infect us with their filth. With this Talent the faithful and his allies fill themselves with a divine rage against their foes, flying into a righteous frenzy and striking out at the unbelievers and the heretics with the Emperor's own bottomless well of hate.
* **Effect:** By taking a Full Action, chanting and screaming prayers, the faithful and a number of allies up to his Fellowship Bonus that can both see him and hear his voice can enter into a frenzy. For the duration of the encounter the faithful and his allies are considered to be in a state of frenzy just as if they had the [Frenzy](talents.md#frenzy) Talent. This works in exactly the same way as the Talent with the exception that those under the ability’s effects will never attack each other, regardless of the circumstances. In addition, if the faithful already has the [Frenzy](talents.md#frenzy) Talent, using this ability becomes easier and he may trigger it with a Free Action. This Talent can be used in conjunction with the [Master Orator](talents.md#master%20orator) Talent to affect more allies.
* **Burn:** Such is the power of the Emperor's hate that the faithful and his allies gain vitality from shedding the blood of His enemies. Whenever a character strikes a killing blow against a foe in a Frenzied state he immediately recovers 1d5 lost Wounds. Any Frenzied allies who successfully attacked the enemy in the same Round they were killed recover 1 Wound.
### **Might of the Emperor**
**Prerequisites:** Pure Faith, Hand of the Emperor, The Passion

Blessed are the faithful, for they have within them the power of the God-Emperor and are transformed by it into His divine tool of vengeance. This Talent allows the faithful to become a vessel for the Emperor’s power, increasing his strength and stamina but at the same time overcoming him with a manic ecstasy which can blind him to reason and make his words unintelligible to the ears of common men.
* **Effect:** With this ability the faithful fills himself with divine power, growing in might and righteousness. He increases all his physical Characteristics (Strength, Toughness, and Agility) by +10 as a tiny fragment of the God-Emperor's will inhabits him. However, this also fills the faithful’s mind with visions of the Emperor’s eternal glory which, while beatific and sacred, are so overwhelming as to diminish his ability to think and interact socially. This has the effect of reducing his mental Characteristics (Perception, Intelligence, and Fellowship, but not Willpower) by –10. In addition, he speaks in a mix of scriptural riddles and holy verse which can be difficult to understand, requiring a **Hard (–30) Intelligence Test** or a [Common Lore (Imperial Creed)](skills.md#common%20lore) Test for anyone else to comprehend. The GM should encourage players to fully role-play this mania.
* **Burn:** The effects last for an entire game session rather than just a single encounter.
### **The Unforgiving Blade**
**Prerequisites:** Pure Faith, Wrath of the Righteous

Blessed are the blades that smite the daemon, the witch, and the psyker. With divine steel the children of the warp are cut deep, and their blood spilled as a sign of their betrayal of the purity of humanity. This ability allows the faithful to bless a blade to deal horrific damage to those who are either touched by the warp or call upon its powers as part of their cursed existence.
* **Effect:** With this Talent the faithful can place a potent blessing on a single melee weapon that already inflicts Rending Damage. The blessed weapon inflicts an extra 1d10 Damage and gains +2 Penetration when used against daemons, psykers, and creatures with 20 or more Corruption Points. In addition, blows from this weapon count as Holy attacks when used against daemons. Such a weapon is difficult for the unclean to wield, and when grasped by a psyker or character with 20 or more Corruption Points it will burn him, inflicting 1d5 Energy Damage each Round he holds it—this Damage is not reduced by Armour or Toughness.
* **Burn:** The faithful can bless a number of weapons equal to twice his Fellowship Bonus, provided he can lay hands on each one (a Half Action per weapon).
### **Divine Touch**
**Prerequisites:** Pure Faith, The Passion, Divine Guidance

Even the lightest of touches by those blessed by the divine God-Emperor are as acid to the flesh of the corrupt, the pure light of the faithful’s soul burning into the vile darkness of the heretic’s mind and causing him to cry out in despair from the Emperor's holy radiance and the weight of their own misdeeds. This Talent allows the faithful to bring terrible pain and crippling agony to those tainted by the warp, either diminishing their power (in the case of daemons) or causing them debilitating torment (in the case of psykers and others tainted by the warp).
* **Effect:** With this ability the faithful lays hands upon the corrupt and warp-tainted, causing them excruciating pain. This requires the faithful to touch the target somewhere their skin is exposed. In combat this will generally require a successful Weapon Skill Test as if making an attack, and may call for a [Called Shot](combat.md#called%20shot%28%29full%20action%29) Action depending on how the target is clothed and/or armoured. If the target is a psyker or has 20 or more Corruption Points they must make a Willpower Test, with failure causing them to immediately suffer an [Energy Damage Critical Effect](injury%20and%20healing.md#energy%20critical%20effects) to the targeted location. The faithful rolls 1d5+2 to determine the specific effect. The target suffers the indicated Critical Effect, including any levels of Fatigue, Stunning, or potentially permanent injuries, but does not actually take any Wounds or Critical Damage. If used on a daemon it instead forces them to immediately make a [Warp Instability](traits.md#warp%20instability) Test with a –30 penalty.
* **Burn:** The faithful may make Divine Touch attacks until the end of the encounter. In addition, the faithful rolls 1d10+2 to determine the Critical Effect, which may be sufficiently instantly slay a target if the roll is high enough. If used on a daemon they suffer a –60 penalty to their Warp Instability Test instead of the usual –30.
### **Religious Hysteria**
**Prerequisites:** Pure Faith, Righteous Frenzy

Together the true believers are unstoppable. We are the untold billions of humanity, the God-Emperor’s faithful and His devoted servants. Our power lives on the lips of the devout and spreads like fire through the air on the strength of our words. This ability starts a chain of religious fervour which spreads through the minds of citizens and can turn a crowd of sullen hab workers into a raging mob of Emperor-praising zealots ready to tear the throats from the unrighteous.
* **Effect:** This Talent allows the faithful to spread a religious rapture among Imperial citizens, filling them with righteous zeal. For this to take root the faithful must be able to preach to a group of citizens for at least 10 minutes and have their attention for the duration of that time. After this, the faithful makes an Opposed Willpower Test with the crowd, which can be of any size, provided they can see and hear him "in the flesh". The faithful could use something like a handheld loud hailer to address a larger crowd, but being displayed remotely on a pict-caster won't do. If the faithful succeeds on the Test the crowd will become a mob and begin to spread the word of the Emperor. For the next 24 hours any Imperial citizen the mob comes into contact with must pass a Willpower Test or join them. The faithful can then direct the mob against his enemies, though they need to be clearly and convincingly articulated as foes of the Emperor, either in the faithful's initial sermon or by leading them directly. The mob, and all of its members, will benefit from the [Hatred](talents.md#hatred) Talent toward a single foe, as described by the faithful. This is not mind control, and while the mob will be motivated and eager, they will not needlessly endanger themselves or act wildly out of character. Inciting a mob to riot outside an enforcer house as a distraction is entirely reasonable, but having them attempt to storm the enforcer house through a hail of riot gun fire is unlikely to succeed.
* **Burn:** Those affected by Religious Hysteria will also gain the effects of [Righteous Frenzy](the%20power%20of%20faith.md#righteous%20frenzy). This ability should be used carefully, as a frenzied mob could reduce an entire area to destructive anarchy if it gets out of the faithful's control—which is a distinct possibility—the population turning upon itself in an orgy of cleansing violence.
### **Soul Storm**
**Prerequisites:** Pure Faith, Divine Touch, Flames of Faith

You are the centre of the God-Emperor’s might, you are His focus upon the world of men and through your will and your soul flows His purifying light. This ability allows the faithful to unleash a fearsome soul storm in a flash of blinding light and burning flame, cleansing an area of the warp, its spawn, and those touched by its corrupting influence.
* **Effect:** This Talent grants the faithful the ability to conjure a Soul Storm, a blast of pure holy energy that bursts from his eyes and mouth to consume everything nearby tainted by the warp. Triggering the Soul Storm is a Full Action and will affect everything within a radius of 10 metres times the faithful’s Willpower Bonus. Psykers and anyone with Corruption Points in this area will immediately suffer 1d10 Energy Damage not reduced by Armour or Toughness. In addition Psykers must pass a Willpower Test or suffer an additional 1d10 Damage (also not reduced by Armour or Toughness) and lose access to their psychic powers for the remainder of the encounter. Those with Corruption Points will also take an additional point of Damage for every Corruption Point they have, which is also not reduced by Armour or Toughness, as their taint burns within their soul. Daemons caught in the area of effect will also suffer 1d10 Energy Damage (not reduced by Armour or Toughness) and must pass a Willpower Test or lose access to any psychic powers they may possess in much the same way as psykers. Note, however, that very powerful daemons (those with a Willpower of 50 or more) are not affected by this power at all, and neither are those who are completely committed to the Ruinous Powers, such as Chaos Legionnaires, though they may cringe from the Emperor’s light all the same.
  Conjuring a Soul Storm is massively taxing to the faithful and will immediately inflict a number of levels of Fatigue equal to his Toughness Bonus, effectively knocking him unconscious and causing him to collapse. Even when he comes to, the faithful may not conjure another Soul Storm for at least 24 hours.
* **Burn:** All Damage inflicted by the Soul Storm is doubled.