The following Alternate Career Ranks may be selected by Arbitrators. 
#### **Table: Arbitrator Alternate Career Ranks**
| Name                                                                                                                  | Minimum Rank |
| --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | :----------: |
| [Agent of the Lords Dragon](arbitrator%20alternate%20career%20ranks.md#agent%20of%20the%20lords%20dragon)             |      4       |
| [Agent of Reliquary 26](arbitrator%20alternate%20career%20ranks.md#agent%20of%20reliquary%2026)                       |      4       |
| [Chastener](arbitrator%20alternate%20career%20ranks.md#chastener)                                                     |      3       |
| [Cult of the Pure Form](arbitrator%20alternate%20career%20ranks.md#cult%20of%20the%20pure%20form)                     |      4       |
| [Malfian Bloodsworn](arbitrator%20alternate%20career%20ranks.md#malfian%20bloodsworn)                                 |      5       |
| [Mortiurge](arbitrator%20alternate%20career%20ranks.md#mortiurge)                                                     |      5       |
| [Ordo Sicarius Initiate](arbitrator%20alternate%20career%20ranks.md#ordo%20sicarius%20initiate)                       |      4       |
| [Saboteur](arbitrator%20alternate%20career%20ranks.md#saboteur)                                                       |      3       |
| [Sin Eater](arbitrator%20alternate%20career%20ranks.md#sin%20eater)                                                   |      4       |
| [Slate-Agent](arbitrator%20alternate%20career%20ranks.md#slate-agent)                                                 |      6       |
| [Suffering Marshal](arbitrator%20alternate%20career%20ranks.md#suffering%20marshal)                                   |      5       |
| [Tyrantine Shadow Agent](arbitrator%20alternate%20career%20ranks.md#tyrantine%20shadow%20agent)                       |      5       |
| [Warden of the Divisio Immoralis](arbitrator%20alternate%20career%20ranks.md#warden%20of%20the%20divisio%20immoralis) |      1       |
| [Warp Dabbler](arbitrator%20alternate%20career%20ranks.md#warp%20dabbler)                                             |      6       |
## **Agent of the Lords Dragon**

*“The phrase 'be seeing you' has a different meaning for us, Inquisitor Caidin. When we say this, it is to be taken quite literally.”*

— Arch-Magos Karolinious Benz, Magos-Draco of the Lords Dragon
### **Background**
Shrouded in mystery, and whispered about only by fools and madmen, is the legend of the Panopticon. Supposedly hidden deep within the Lathes System, this orbiting void station is rumoured to be the real authority behind the Calixian Mechanicus, and the seat of power for an organisation whose name is synonymous with dread: the Lords Dragon.

Dispatched to the then-unconquered Calix Expanse thousands of years ago through Logis-Prophesies, secretive Tech-Priests sought out worlds to eventually bring under Mechanicus control. They were to locate any sites that would be advantageous once the upcoming Angevin Crusade had finished, and to ensure that the Mechanicus claimed the most important worlds as their own, before the Adeptus Ministorum gained a foothold in the new Sector. The first agents to arrive quickly discovered a small system colonised aeons ago during Mankind’s earliest steps into the galaxy. The irregular orbits of its main worlds created violent shifts of gravity, and had resulted in the formation of three unusual asteroid belts. Only the bravest or most foolish of ship captains could ever hope to safely navigate the gravitic nightmare of the system’s asteroids, and thus the Lords Dragon, the ancient cabal of Arch-Magi tasked with policing the Mechanicus within the Sector, took the hidden centre of these belts as their new home.

The Panopticon Orbital was built as a habitat and headquarters for the Lords Dragon, but more importantly as a hub of observation. The Lords Dragon knew that they would need to observe the emerging Calixis Sector to ensure that tech-heresy and affronts to the Machine God never went unpunished. Using scarcely understood devices from the Dark Age of Technology, the Lords Dragon established an extensive monitoring network known as the Praecursator Grid across the Pondus system, using the space around their new home as a field test. If their system allowed observation without direct interference, then they knew that they could expand the grid to cover all the forge worlds that would eventually be built, and even some worlds outside the Mechanicus’ sphere of authority.

They soon discovered that the surviving descendants of the original colonists had actually thrived in their cruel environment, and performed genetic modifications to improve their usefulness even further. Lest others such as the Ecclesiarchy claim them, the population was interred into massive Great Holds and kept in stasis in the fringes of the cometary clouds surrounding the system. When the Crusade arrived in the system many years later, it would find a group of harsh, uninhabited worlds suitable only for the Adeptus Mechanicus, and once established, the Lords Dragon could bring the population back, each one of them ready and eager to work for the glory of the Omnissiah. Such is the scope of the Lords Dragon and their guidance for the greater good of the Machine Cult.

With the success of their observation technology, the Lords Dragon began to involve themselves directly in the Angevin Crusade. They went back to their usual methods of seeking out corruption from within, ensuring that the worlds the crusade conquered were purged of tech-heresy. They took steps to ensure that the Explorator fleets found their way to what would become the Lathes System, and then did what they could to engineer the ceding of the worlds to the Mechanicum. As each new forge world was lit, the Lords Dragon monitored. Within each new voidship hull laid or Skitarii regiment raised, their surveillance kept close watch for any signs of deviant thought or deed. Hardly a moment went by when the Lords Dragon were unable to view exactly what the Mechanicus was doing within the gestating Calixis Sector, or, at least, that is what they would wish all who dwell in the Lathe Worlds to believe.

The Lords Dragon have always made the Inquisition wary. From the Inquisition’s perspective, only it has the proper remit and power to safeguard humanity against the terrors within, without, and beyond, and it does not relish the idea of others, operating outside of its purview, attempting to do the same. The Tricorn Palace has spent many fruitless years petitioning the Lathes for access to the Panopticon Orbital, but every request has been denied. To make matters worse, the Inquisition is seemingly unable to even prove its existence, though many suppose this is more than likely a ploy of intrigue for the purposes of future negotiations—if there's one thing the Inquisition excels at above all else, it is finding things.

More disturbing are the continued reports that the Praecursator Grid extends beyond the borders of the Cult Mechanicus, and that the Lords Dragon have the ability to spy upon many important Ecclesiarchical holdings, the domain of Sector Lord Hax, and the Tricorn Palace itself. Some even believe that all the cybernetics manufactured within the Calixis Sector are part of this Grid, and that everyone who has ever received a bionic is actually an unwitting spy in service to the Lords Dragon. If such a revelation were found to be true then the outrage, especially from the Ecclesiarchy and groups such as the Cult of the Pure Form, would be immense, and the Calixis
Sector could find itself in a sectarian conflict the likes of which it has never seen. The Inquisition has mounted numerous operations to infiltrate the Lords Dragon but has not met with any reported success, their agents usually returning empty-handed—often with a letter of reproachment from the Lords Dragon in hand—or, sometimes, simply not returning at all.

Yet for all their clandestine work and surprisingly adroit political manoeuvring, the Lords Dragon are more than willing to work alongside the Inquisition when the situation calls for it. Unlike most within the Calixian Mechanicus, the Lords Dragon are not especially secretive when it comes to cooperation with other organisations, as long as they can stay behind the scenes. This has given the Lords Dragon a fearful reputation amongst the Lathe populations, and they are all too eager and willing to foster this dread. They actively encourage the servants of the Mechanicus to believe the stories—that they are always watching, that they can operate in plain sight without anyone knowing, and that the fabled Dragon Secutorii are waiting for the moment when they will swoop down and destroy everyone who has ever cursed at a machine. This could be a ruse to disguise possible gaps in their observational systems or limitations of their power, creating the impression that the Lords Dragon are more omniscient than they truly are. Some even whisper that the dreaded Praecursator Grid itself does not exist at all, and never has either—the seemingly pervasive eyes and ears of the Lords Dragon, then, are actually just the result of diligent "old-fashioned" agent work. Few are willing to determine if these rumours might be correct, and only those dwelling within the Panopticon Orbital know the real truth.

To be such an agent is to act in the name of the Omnissiah and to always watch for tech-heresy in any form, no matter the source. Such deviance within the Sector often comes from the highest Magos as well as the least disciplined novice Tech-Adept, as well as from unsanctified xenos abominations that would pollute the Machine Spirit. Their extensive surveillance technologies across the Lathe Worlds are not absolute, and only through extensive travel and investigation can they properly act to ensure the preservation of the Mechanicum. Agents may have differing standards as to what constitutes tech-heresy, however, despite what appear to be rigid definitions. The cabal is remarkably united in its goals, though, for the Cult of the Machine God’s survival is of paramount importance. Only through the proper worship of the Omnissiah and his blessed technologies can humanity continue, let alone achieve the perfection of the Holy Machine. All who serve the Dragon in the Lathes know that Mankind is but one blasphemous experiment or unholy xenotech activation away from falling once again into darkness, and it is their duty to prevent this, damn the protestations of the Sector's other authorities.
### **Becoming an Agent of the Lords Dragon**
Very much like the Holy Ordos of the Inquisition, the Lords Dragon are quite cautious when it comes to whom they select as their representatives. Each carefully chosen Agent must be trustworthy and incorruptible, and they must take the secrets of the Lords Dragon to their graves. To join the Lords Dragon is to gain knowledge of one of the greatest secrets in the Calixis Sector, the Praecursator Grid, and although most Agents never see the Panopticon Orbital, all are aware of its unique ability to use this Grid to observe and gather data from every forge world across the Calixis Sector. Perhaps surprisingly, Agents of the Lord Dragon are loaned to Inquisitors on a regular basis, although the more cynical voices within the Inquisition see this apparent high level of assistance as just another example of the Lords Dragon’s desire to infiltrate all aspects of the Sector's authorities and governing bodies.

Upon becoming an Agent of the Lords Dragon, the character gains the **Rigor Mentis Trait**.

**Required Career:** Adept, Arbitrator, Assassin, or Tech-Priest
**Alternate Rank:** Rank 4 or higher (2,000 xp)
**Mechanicum Thrall:** Even Agents who are not ordained Tech-Priests benefit from the considerable resources the Lords Dragon have at their disposal. The character is considered Mechanicus Class for the purposes of determining monthly income.
**Other Requirements:** Cannot have Peer (Ecclesiarchy) or Good Reputation (Ecclesiarchy)
#### **Trait: Rigor Mentis**
The Lords Dragon might enjoy the level of dread that they inspire within the Lathe Worlds, but even they would not risk their greatest secrets for something as trivial as a reputation. Those who find themselves selected to join the Lords Dragon’s ranks undergo significant hypnoath conditioning that makes them resistant to interrogation, specifically interrogation related to the Lords Dragon themselves or anything to do with the Panopticon Orbital. It is an unconscious form of mental defence, and even if the Agent were aware of it, he would be unable to crack it intentionally.

The Acolyte may re-roll any Interaction Test made to resist the effects of Interrogation, Charm, Deceive, or any other method that an adversary might use to gain information relating to the Lords Dragon, the Panopticon Orbital, or anything related to the Praecursator Grid.
#### **Table: Agent of the Lords Dragon Advances**

| Advance                                                               | Cost |  Type  | Prerequisites                      |
| --------------------------------------------------------------------- | :--: | :----: | ---------------------------------- |
| [Common Lore (Machine Cult)](skills.md#common%20lore)                 | 100  | Skill  | —                                  |
| [Common Lore (Machine Cult) +10](skills.md#common%20lore)             | 100  | Skill  | Common Lore (Machine Cult)         |
| [Common Lore (Tech)](skills.md#common%20lore)                         | 100  | Skill  | —                                  |
| [Common Lore (Tech) +10](skills.md#common%20lore)                     | 100  | Skill  | Common Lore (Tech)                 |
| [Deceive](skills.md#deceive)                                          | 100  | Skill  | —                                  |
| [Inquiry](skills.md#inquiry)                                          | 100  | Skill  | —                                  |
| [Interrogation](skills.md#interrogation)                              | 100  | Skill  | —<br>                              |
| [Scrutiny](skills.md#scrutiny)                                        | 100  | Skill  | —<br>                              |
| [Search](skills.md#search)                                            | 100  | Skill  | —<br>                              |
| [Shadowing](skills.md#shadowing)                                      | 100  | Skill  | —<br>                              |
| [Silent Move](skills.md#silent%20move)                                | 100  | Skill  | —<br>                              |
| [Tech-Use](skills.md#tech-use)                                        | 100  | Skill  | —<br>                              |
| [Hatred (Tech-Heretics)](talents.md#hatred)                           | 100  | Talent | —<br>                              |
| [Resistance (Fear)](talents.md#resistance)                            | 100  | Talent | —<br>                              |
| [Resistance (Psychic Powers)](talents.md#resistance)                  | 100  | Talent | —<br>                              |
| [Strong Minded](talents.md#strong%20minded)                           | 100  | Talent | WP 30, Resistance (Psychic Powers) |
| [Deceive +10](skills.md#deceive)                                      | 200  | Skill  | Deceive                            |
| [Forbidden Lore (Adeptus Mechanicus)](skills.md#forbidden%20lore)     | 200  | Skill  | —<br>                              |
| [Forbidden Lore (Adeptus Mechanicus) +10](skills.md#forbidden%20lore) | 200  | Skill  | Forbidden Lore (Ad. Mech.)         |
| [Forbidden Lore (Heresy)](skills.md#forbidden%20lore)                 | 200  | Skill  | —                                  |
| [Forbidden Lore (Inquisition)](skills.md#forbidden%20lore)            | 200  | Skill  | —                                  |
| [Inquiry +10](skills.md#inquiry)                                      | 200  | Skill  | Inquiry                            |
| [Interrogation +10](skills.md#interrogation)                          | 200  | Skill  | Interrogation                      |
| [Scrutiny +10](skills.md#scrutiny)                                    | 200  | Skill  | Scrutiny                           |
| [Search +10](skills.md#search)                                        | 200  | Skill  | Search                             |
| [Shadowing +10](skills.md#shadowing)                                  | 200  | Skill  | Shadowing                          |
| [Silent Move +10](skills.md#silent%20move)                            | 200  | Skill  | Silent Move                        |
| [Tech-Use +10](skills.md#tech-use)                                    | 200  | Skill  | Tech-Use                           |
| **All-Seeing Eye**                                                    | 200  | Talent | WP 40, Tech-Use                    |
| [Mental Fortress](talents.md#mental%20fortress)                       | 200  | Talent | WP 50, Strong Minded               |
| **Metal Fatigue**                                                     | 200  | Talent | Interrogation                      |
| [Peer (Adeptus Mechanicus)](talents.md#peer)                          | 200  | Talent | Fel 30                             |
#### **Talent: All-Seeing Eye**
At some point during his service to the Lords Dragon, an Agent will be instructed in how to gain limited access to the Praecursator Grid. To access to the Praecursator Grid, the Acolyte should make a **Hard (–20) Tech-Use Test**. If he succeeds, the Acolyte gains the most recently recorded information, usually no more than a day old. If the Acolyte gains 3 or more degrees of success, he gains complete access to the Grid on that planet, and may look through any pict feed and access any archived data. Access to the Praecursator Grid must be gained personally, and the GM has final determination on whether the Acolyte can access the Grid, as well as whether the Grid is functioning within the requested area.
#### **Talent: Metal Fatigue**
**Requirements:** Interrogation Skill
Tech-heresy is a grave matter, and one that the Mechanicus does not take lightly. Hereteks and others who would misuse the Omnissiah’s gifts are the greatest enemies of the Lords Dragon, and they have developed many ways to drive information from those they capture. One of the more insidious interrogation methods is that of Metal Fatigue, where a small bionic implant is used to slowly disintegrate the subject’s cybernetic components. This causes an excruciating pain that very few can resist, and those who do often die in agony, bereft of their bionics. The Acolyte can use Metal Fatigue by making an Opposed Tech-Use Test against the subject’s Toughness. For every Degree of Success the Acolyte gains, the subject takes 1 Damage and suffers a –10 penalty to the Interrogation Test that follows. If the subject takes Damage equal to his Toughness Bonus, he permanently loses one randomly chosen cybernetic. The subject of the interrogation must have at least one cybernetic implant for the Acolyte to use this Talent.
## **Agent of Reliquary 26**

*“Ours is not an easy task. We gather those most important relics, those symbols of the culture of Mankind. We dare the darkness and travel across the stars clinging to rumour and legend as our guide.”*

— Marcius Dans, Agent of Reliquary 26
### **Background**
Entombed more than a hundred metres beneath the Inquisition's majestic if imposing Tricorn Palace is the Grand Reliquarium, a series of vaults that are home to many artefacts and powerful relics of the Calixis Sector. In these hallowed halls rest hundreds of items of power, from crafted trinkets of the Dark Age of Technology to the blessed weapons of venerable martyrs or even saints. Each of these vaults, of which reliable sources claim there at at least one hundred, are heavily guarded, monitored, and tended to by the Custodiatrix, a small organisation of curator-assassins, each charged with the safety of the artefacts and assigned to one of the vaults. Reliquary 26 contains the relics of the Scholariate at Arms.

In addition to housing artefacts, Reliquary 26 also employs a great number of Agents, men and women who scour the Calixian worlds in search of more items of renown to add to the vaunted collection. Whether through negotiation, deception, or violence, the goal of these Agents is a simple one: ensure the safety and survival of the relics of Man. To do so, they must first identify such items of power, decide whether or not the current ownership is valid, and reclaim the item in question, by force if necessary. Often, Agents act alone or in pairs, though it is not uncommon for an entire cadre of mercenaries to be hired if an acquisition proves particularly difficult. It is rumoured that that the Scholariate at Arms once hired an entire house of assassins to reclaim a relic from the blessed armour of Saint Drusus, though the veracity of such a rumour could never be proven.

As one might expect, Agents of Reliquary 26 are very well outfitted. Although they are relatively unknown as an organisation, members often find themselves at odds with Calixian nobles, Ecclesastical prelates, Rogue Traders, and mercantile magnates—individuals who often value their possessions and do not wish to part with them simply because the Inquisition asks nicely. As a result, many Agents have at least one or two enemies in the upper echelons of Imperial society. Though the agency does attempt to reimburse the owners of the relics they acquire, it is not uncommon for them to have to pry the artefact in question from the lifeless fingers of some greedy soul that simply couldn't part with it for any amount of compensation.

Reliquary 26 works quite closely with the larger Ordos of the Inquisition. Often, Inquisitors find themselves with items of interest left over from an investigation. In exchange for the safe return of any relics or artefacts found by an Inquisitor in the course of his duties, Reliquary 26 will often return the favour by loaning out an item of great power. Many Inquisitors are quite content to employ Agents of Reliquary 26 in their Acolyte cells, profiting from the Agents' access to rare and often powerful devices while maintaining a mutually-beneficial relationship with the Custodiatrix. 
### **Becoming an Agent of Reliquary 26**
An experienced servant of Reliquary 26 is an indispensable resource to an Acolyte cell. When dealing with nobility or other well-to-do types, or in areas where ancient or xenos technology may
be encountered, an Inquisitor would be well served by requisitioning an Agent of Reliquary 26's services. Such Agents usually only serve the Inquisitor the duration of the investigation at hand. Inquisitors who must regularly navigate such treacherous situations have been known to second a trusted Acolyte to the Custodiatrix to be trained in their ways, effectively gaining a permanent "representative" to Reliquary 26's hallowed armoury. As the point of contact between the Grand Reliquarium and the often covetous owners of the sought-after artefacts, most Agents become quite adept at negotiation and tradecraft. Such skills can be invaluable to an Acolyte cell, especially in situations where a hostile acquisition could be more troublesome than normal.

**Required Career:** Any
**Alternate Rank:** Rank 4 or higher (2,000 xp)
**Other Requirements:** Must have acquired one item of Near Unique Availability or rarer, and turned it over to his Inquisitor or directly to the Grand Reliquarium.
**Aggrieved Parties:** Even if the character has not personally wronged them, at least one group of well-heeled individuals gravely dislikes Reliquary 26. The character gains the [Rival (Ecclesiarchy), (Nobility), or (Rogue Trader)](talents.md#rival) Talent at the GM's discretion.
**Reliquary Loan:** The Grand Reliquarium has resources that include ancient and exotic equipment that is sometimes entrusted to Acolytes serving an Inquisitor. At the beginning of each mission the character gains one valuable item determined by the GM. Unless the character receives some special dispensation, the item must be returned after the mission, with grave consequences for those who try to deprive the Reliquarium of their property. The GM should choose an item that they feel is appropriate to the Acolyte's mission.
#### **Table: Agent of Reliquary 26 Advances**
| Advance                                                                        | Cost |  Type  | Prerequisites  |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | :--: | :----: | -------------- |
| [Barter](skills.md#barter)                                                     | 100  | Skill  | —              |
| [Barter +10](skills.md#barter)                                                 | 100  | Skill  | Barter         |
| [Charm](skills.md#charm)                                                       | 100  | Skill  | —              |
| [Chem-Use](skills.md#chem-use)                                                 | 100  | Skill  | —              |
| [Chem-Use +10](skills.md#chem-use)                                             | 100  | Skill  | Chem-Use       |
| [Deceive](skills.md#deceive)                                                   | 100  | Skill  | —              |
| [Deceive +10](skills.md#deceive)                                               | 100  | Skill  | Deceive        |
| [Evaluate](skills.md#evaluate)                                                 | 100  | Skill  | —              |
| [Evaluate +10](skills.md#evaluate)                                             | 100  | Skill  | Evaluate       |
| [Inquiry](skills.md#inquiry)                                                   | 100  | Skill  | —              |
| [Inquiry +10](skills.md#inquiry)                                               | 100  | Skill  | Inquiry        |
| [Scholastic Lore (Archaic)](skills.md#scholastic%20lore)                       | 100  | Skill  | —              |
| [Scrutiny](skills.md#scrutiny)                                                 | 100  | Skill  | —              |
| [Search](skills.md#search)                                                     | 100  | Skill  | —              |
| [Search +10](skills.md#search)                                                 | 100  | Skill  | —              |
| [Trade (Technomat)](skills.md#trade)                                           | 100  | Skill  | —              |
| [Air of Authority](talents.md#air%20of%20authority)                            | 100  | Talent | —              |
| [Chem Geld](talents.md#chem%20geld)                                            | 100  | Talent | —              |
| [Exotic Weapon Training *(choose one)*](talents.md#exotic%20weapon%20training) | 100  | Talent | —              |
| [Command](skills.md#command)                                                   | 200  | Skill  | —              |
| [Forbidden Lore (Archeotech)](skills.md#forbidden%20lore)                      | 200  | Skill  | —              |
| [Intimidate](skills.md#intimidate)                                             | 200  | Skill  | —              |
| [Tech-Use](skills.md#tech-use)                                                 | 200  | Skill  | —              |
| [Foresight](talents.md#foresight)                                              | 200  | Talent | —              |
| [Iron Discipline](talents.md#iron%20discipline)                                | 200  | Talent | WP 30, Command |
## **Chastener**

*"Who can truly return to the grace of the God-Emperor without the searing pain which accompanies having one's sin revealed in His just light? This modest brand I have here is but a small thing by comparison, but the pain you feel should serve as a sufficient representation. Now, kindly hold still..."*

— Marcus Danturian, Chastener of The Pendulum
### **Background**
To be gunned down in the street, cornered by a squad of black-armoured Arbitrators or green-clad Magistratum enforcers, is a common (and usually deserved) end for those who have threatened the stability and constancy of Imperial society. Not all crimes warrant death, however, and those who show some contrition, a chance at rehabilitation, or are just not foolish enough to point a gun at a lawgiver are more than likely to make the acquaintances of a Chastener. It is the duty of the Chasteners to return the body and soul of such criminals to the service of the Emperor, which He so rightly requires. 

The Chastener is a determined hound of a lawman, one that bites viciously but with enough measured restraint to subdue his target without killing them whenever possible. Arbitrator precinct forts and the better-equipped enforcer houses will often feature a specialised simulation room for these men to practice the ways of fighting to subdue and restrain. A Chastener also learns the finer aspects of interrogation, torture, and coercive force, to better extract confessions and provide repentance and absolution to those who would receive it. For those renegades who would prefer a quick and heroic death, going down in a hail of Arbites gunfire to avoid true penance for their crimes, a Chastener determined to take them alive is like a force of nature, standing in defiance of whatever threats the criminal poses to deliver them to their judgement.

Long considered an antiquated and whimsical notion, the forceful rehabilitation of the recidivist and the renegade has returned to the mainstream largely as a result of the influence of Lord Marshal Goreman of the Calixian Arbites. Goreman, more of a pious man of faith than a dispassionate legalist, holds to the notion that each man's first duty is to serve the Emperor in life and deed. To act contrary to the law is to not only disobey this duty, but to spit in the face of everything the Emperor has built and the countless sacrifices He has made to secure Mankind's future. Therefore, in the Lord Marshal's view, it is not the Arbitrators' place to take from the Emperor one who might still serve the purpose for which he was born. Following the lead of their master and patron, the Chasteners seek to return their prey to the straight and narrow rather than execute them right off, with killing reserved only for the most irredeemable or to protect the lives of their fellow lawgivers. If a Chastener succeeds in his task, not only will he have returned a wayward soul to the service of the God-Emperor, for the betterment of all, but he will have also saved the same soul from damnation.

The ways in which crime is punished without resorting to the barbarity of execution are many and varied, but only a few outcomes exist for the criminal. In the eyes of the Chastener, the most desired result is to return the prisoner to Imperial society, well-chastised for his lawless ways and repentant, a good and kind soul remade from the dark and depraved heart it had been before. In many cases, the criminal is often too far gone, their crimes so numerous and repulsive that true clemency is impossible. The Chastener must be perceptive and of sound judgement, able to discern the pleas of mercy from the truly remorseful from the conceit of those merely expressing fear and cowardice. These important distinctions made, the Chastener can then go about his work of absolving the repentant, consigning the recalcitrant to more long-term forms of rehabilitation, and—if necessary—putting to death the absolutely irredeemable. Those who have received absolution return to criminality only very, very rarely, and the Lord Marshal has been quite keen to use such outcomes to validate his positions.

Reaching any of these ends is no easy thing, either for the criminal or his Chastener, for those who have started down the path of impiousness and criminality have already forsaken their duty to Mankind in favour of their own desires and depravities. In order to return a prisoner to the lawful path, the deviant mind must first be broken free of the taint of rebellion, impulsivity, and faithlessness. As each criminal is a unique case, with their own motives and levers, the Chastener must be a master of both physical torture and corporeal punishments as well as psychological readjustment, whichever is most effective for their current charge. Of course, breaking the subject's errant spirit is only the first stage of the process of rehabilitation. Only after they have been reduced to little more than cowering shells of the foolhardy criminals they once were are the prisoners prepared to be reforged by the Chasteners into proper Imperial citizens. This process has been known to take years for some especially heinous villains, a full daily commitment for the Chastener that consumes the entirety of their hours on duty. Those who fully understand the severity of their misdeeds and the gravity of the situation they find themselves in, meanwhile, might only need a few weeks of a Chastener's tender ministrations before they can be paroled back into society.

Of course, the Chastener's job does not start in the interrogation room. Whilst Arbitrators and rank-and-file enforcers are perfectly capable soldiers of the law, their methods are largely martial in nature. When bullets are flying but circumstances demand the miscreant be taken alive, the Chastener has the responsibility of exercising the necessary restraint to capture and detain the ruffians. To improve their chances for a successful arrest (and staying alive in a firefight) Chasteners
receive extensive training in all sorts of subdual weaponry, from shock mauls to stun grenades to grapple-nets, among other esoteric devices of man-catching. Finally, the Chastener must be able to use his own body as a weapon to restrain his prey, for it cannot be guaranteed that the optimal tool for the job is always at hand. Chasteners thus place significant emphasis on bare-handed combat, as sometimes an effective chokehold or strategically placed carapace boot might be the only means the Chastener has of subduing his quarry.

The Chastener's ability to doggedly pursue, detain, and interrogate criminals makes them both valuable agents of Imperial law and attractive prospects for Inquisitors of the Holy Ordos. The same skills used to extract confessions and repentance from criminals are very applicable to breaking the will of heretics and cultists. While more puritanical Inquisitors might view death as the only acceptable punishment for heresy, extracting information from the heretic first is usually still considered a best practice. Many experienced Chasteners have found themselves scooped up by the Inquisition, either by simple conscription or, for the more fanciful and imaginative, appealing to the Chastener's sense of "a higher duty". This propensity is a vindication of training such lawgivers to their task, but also a point of contention for Lord Marshal Goreman and his like-minded confederates, as their most talented men seem to keep getting appropriated by the one authority the Arbites cannot resist.
### **Becoming a Chastener**
Joining the ranks of the Chasteners is as much a choice as joining the cadre of an Inquisitor. While some may strive for the position, most are pushed toward it by their superiors. Many are recruited directly from the ranks of Arbites troopers, but well-regarded planetary enforcers and even informants and bounty hunters have been known to find themselves wearing the Chastener's chained badge. Troopers who have shown natural knack at interrogation and uncommon restraint in the apprehension of criminals are natural candidates for the rank of Chastener. Few chosen deny the position, for while many Arbitrators prefer a more straightforward approach to dealing with criminals, the rank and honour paid to a Chastener is a valuable asset to anyone
wishing to one day command a Precinct of his own. 

Those in charge of putting prospective Chasteners through the training program are encouraged to create tasks that escalate in danger and require ever increasing creativity on the part of the candidate. The time and effort placed into training these individuals makes recruitment a serious
affair, especially considering the potential that they may find themselves serving an entirely more lofty master before the Arbitrator precinct fort or enforcer house has a chance to really make good on their investment.

**Required Careers:** Arbitrator, Assassin, or Guardsman
**Alternate Rank:** Rank 3 or higher (1,000 xp)
**Other Requirements:** [Inquiry](skills.md#inquiry) and [Interrogation](skills.md#interrogation) Skills
#### **Table: Chastener Advances**
| Advance                                                                        | Cost |  Type  | Prerequisites                 |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | :--: | :----: | :---------------------------- |
| [Chem-Use](skills.md#chem-use)                                                 | 100  | Skill  | —                             |
| [Common Lore (Underworld)](skills.md#common%20lore)                            | 100  | Skill  | —                             |
| [Common Lore (Underworld) +10](skills.md#common%20lore)                        | 100  | Skill  | Common Lore (Underworld)      |
| [Concealment](skills.md#concealment)                                           | 100  | Skill  | —                             |
| [Interrogation +10](skills.md#interrogation)                                   | 100  | Skill  | Interrogation                 |
| [Intimidate](skills.md#intimidate)                                             | 100  | Skill  | —                             |
| [Intimidate +10](skills.md#intimidate)                                         | 100  | Skill  | Intimidate                    |
| [Scholastic Lore (Judgement)](skills.md#scholastic%20lore)                     | 100  | Skill  | —                             |
| [Scrutiny](skills.md#scrutiny)                                                 | 100  | Skill  | —                             |
| [Scrutiny +10](skills.md#scrutiny)                                             | 100  | Skill  | Scrutiny                      |
| [Shadowing](skills.md#shadowing)                                               | 100  | Skill  | —                             |
| [Silent Move](skills.md#silent%20move)                                         | 100  | Skill  | —                             |
| [Concealment +10](skills.md#concealment)                                       | 200  | Skill  | Concealment                   |
| [Inquiry +10](skills.md#inquiry)                                               | 200  | Skill  | Inquiry                       |
| [Silent Move +10](skills.md#silent%20move)                                     | 200  | Skill  | Silent Move                   |
| [Disarm](talents.md#disarm)                                                    | 200  | Talent | Ag 30                         |
| [Exotic Weapon Training (Web Pistol)](talents.md#exotic%20weapon%20training)   | 200  | Talent | —                             |
| [Exotic Weapon Training (Webber)](talents.md#exotic%20weapon%20training)       | 200  | Talent | —                             |
| [Iron Jaw](talents.md#iron%20jaw)                                              | 200  | Talent | T 40                          |
| [Melee Weapon Training (Shock)](talents.md#melee%20weapon%20training)          | 200  | Talent | —                             |
| [Nerves of Steel](talents.md#nerves%20of%20steel)                              | 200  | Talent | —                             |
| [Peer (Adeptus Arbites)](talents.md#peer)                                      | 200  | Talent | Fel 30                        |
| [Sound Constitution](talents.md#sound%20constitution)†                         | 200  | Talent | —                             |
| [Sure Strike](talents.md#sure%20strike)                                        | 200  | Talent | WS 30                         |
| [Takedown](talents.md#takedown)                                                | 200  | Talent | —                             |
| [Exotic Weapon Training (Heavy Webber)](talents.md#exotic%20weapon%20training) | 300  | Talent | —                             |
| [Unarmed Warrior](talents.md#unarmed%20warrior%20%28ascendant%20talent%29)     | 300  | Talent | WS 35, Ag 35                  |
| [Unarmed Master](talents.md#unarmed%20master%20%28ascendant%20talent%29)       | 500  | Talent | WS 45, Ag 40, Unarmed Warrior |
†*You may select this Talent twice at this Rank.*
## **Cult of the Pure Form**

*"The flesh is strong!"*

— Pure Form maxim
### **Background**
Given the intense liturgical "differences" between them, the Ecclesiarchy and the Adeptus Mechanicus have never enjoyed a healthy working relationship within the Calixis Sector. Conflicts between the two organisations tend to be wars of words, though, political battles fought in the capital worlds of the Sector, rather than outright "shooting wars" between men and machines. Nevertheless, there have been several overt conflicts, such as the attack on the Explorator vessel *Omega Inquiry* from an Adepta Sororitas strike force on the far edges of the Halo Stars. There are no official records of the encounter, but the Tricorn contains sealed datavaults hinting at a heretofore undiscovered abhuman strain that the Mechanicus had uncovered far from civilised space, and the Ministorum’s reactions of horror when their spies reported the discovery. Greatly displeasured by the loss of the Explorator coterie, a Mechanicus Secutor cohort laid waste to two outpost convents in retaliation, and was about to escalate further before secretive diplomacy and unnamed offerings negotiated by third parties settled the matter. Such incidents are still rare, but with the gradual rise of a group calling itself the Cult of the Pure Form, this could begin to change.

It is not known exactly who founded the Cult of the Pure Form, but their influence began in the Malfian Sub-Sector in the immediate aftermath of the Malygrisian Heresy. The traitorous Tech- Priest and his followers ravaged numerous worlds with their devastating weaponry, and some began to think that the existence of the Adeptus Mechanicus would lead to another, inevitable war. The followers of this emerging cult feared that this coming doom would scour humankind from the galaxy, leaving only the cold, barely-human flesh and machine hybrids of the Mechanicus domains behind. This twisted line of logic grew quickly until the first major anti-Mechanicum movement of the Calixis Sector’s history began to swell, with loud marches and violent demonstrations.

In an unexpected move, and one that likely came about due to Cult Mechanicus political manoeuvring on Scintilla, the Sector Synod declared the emergent cult apostate. Over the next decades the cult leaders began to disappear, some dying in mysterious accidents while others perished in what were clearly outright assassinations. Some thought that the Inquisition was to blame, and others whispered of the Officio Assassinorum’s involvement, but very few were aware that the secretive Lords Dragon of the Mechancius bore sole responsibility for this early intervention, and that their clandestine methods had managed to stifle the movement before it
could truly become established. For its part, the Calixian Inquisition viewed this suppression as a grievous overstep of the Lords Dragon's authority beyond the realm of the Lathes, and it was made abundantly clear to the Magi that another transgression of that scale would engulf them in a true shadow war they were not liable to win.

After more high-level negotiation, the Lords Dragon agreed to cease their campaign of suppression, handing over all information they had gathered on the new sect for the Inquisition to process as it saw fit. While the watchers of the Panopticon hoped that the Inquisition would continue their work in stamping out the Cult of the Pure Form, the Conclave determined it was largely harmless to the broader Imperium, and contented themselves to merely monitoring its activities for emergent signs of heresy.

With the bionic boot of the Lords Dragon permanently removed from its figurative throat, the Cult of the Pure Form rose once again, finding succour and eager supporters anywhere common men took umbrage to the Mechanicus' abuses or superstitious fear of its unknowable rites. This time, however, a new generation of cult leaders threw out its previous methods in favour of a slower approach, and rather than attempting to whip the people of a single sub-sector into a frenzy, they would instead choose to let their hatred for the Mechanicus gradually simmer on worlds across the entire Sector.

A second blow came in the form of Ignato Borja, the new Arch-Cardinal of the Sector Synod. Under Ignato's stewardship the Ecclesiarchy curiously refrained denouncing the reformed Cult of the Pure Form. Indeed, Mechanicus spies close to the Ministorum's prelates reported that, at least unofficially, the Ecclesiarchy was quite content to allow the reach of the Pure Form cultists to grow, seeing any harm it might cause the Mechanicus as a potential gain for themselves. Even the Inquisition would be of no aid—initially suspicious of the Pure Form's return to prominence, many of the more puritanical Inquisitors who looked into the cult's ways began to see them in a positive light, emulating agreeable philosophies about the sanctity of the human body and acting as valuable check against the Mechanicus' own clandestine efforts.

Their mechadendrites tied, the Lords Dragon have been forced to passively observe as the Cult of Pure Form rose to prominence once more. Like clockwork, any egregious display of the Mechanicus' power beyond its forge worlds—an Explorator press-gang crew riving through starport public houses, or servitor-artisans systemically scooping up dregs in a hab-vault—is likely to be followed up by an agitator from the Pure Form arriving to preach about the sin and hubris of the Martian Priesthood.

As a matter of liturgy, the Cult of the Pure Form’s members—most of them, anyway—do not hate the Adeptus Mechanicus purely for their worship of the Omnissiah, and neither are they explicitly anti-technology. They simply wish to wrest control of such power away from the Mechanicus, proffering the provincial view that “uncorrupted” humans might control it instead. Their true ire stems from the extensive use of cybernetics and other mechanical implants that virtually every member of the Adeptus Mechanicus possesses. To the cult, the most pure form in the universe is that of the human body, an image of the God-Emperor Himself, and to defile it by removing untainted flesh and grafting on artificial limbs and organs is blasphemy in its own right.

Quite a few members of the Cult of the Pure Form have cybernetic implants when they join. These souls are often spurred on by dissatisfaction with low quality or cheap implants, or suffer a form of "cyberpsychosis" where they cannot perceive their augments as part of their own body and come to loathe their presence. These cultists undergo a ritual known as the Purity of Flesh to remove the implants from their bodies. 

This ritual often leaves the participant missing limbs or eyes, and can rob them of their ability to hear or even speak. Known as the “Shriven” by other Pure Form cultists, these blessed men and women are highly regarded, having seen the purity of the human body as it was meant to be and unshackling themselves from the augmetic prisons of the Mechanicus. Most will choose to replace their removed cybernetics with strictly fleshy equivalents, often vat-grown examples cultivated for the individual Shriven in question, although some are forced to make do with biomatter reclaimed and purified from servitors or harvested from executed criminals. Especially pious cultists have been known to reject even this, however, getting by with purely inert prostheses and simply accepting the loss of ability that comes from a missing body part as an intractable and, indeed, necessary aspect of the human condition.

The bulk of the cult’s ranks, however, are made up of those fortunate enough to have lived without the defilement of cybernetics, and are referred to as the “Untouched.” Each Untouched member comes to the sect for different reasons, but most are spurred on by a love of the God-Emperor as a human paragon and an inherent mistrust of, or an outright animus towards, the Adeptus Mechanicus.

The Cult of the Pure Form does not sit by and wait passively for people to see its point of view, and indeed instituted their own group of missionaries. This third group is the most powerful within the cult, and are known as the “Reformed.” Acting as the public face of the cult, the Reformed are a large, sector-spanning network. They commonly preach that the God-Emperor had not a single cybernetic in the days when He walked amongst mortals, and that if He was pure of flesh, then so too should His subjects be. The Reformed mainly consist of Shriven who have reversed the process of bionic implantation, creating implants not of unholy cybernetics, but instead made out of pure (if sometimes misshapen) flesh. To the Reformed any inefficiencies or inferior function these parts have compared to the soulless steel they replaced is simply an expression of faith and piousness towards the very idea of the Pure Form itself.
### **Becoming a Cultist of the Pure Form**
There are many ways to be tempted to join the Cult of the Pure Form. For some, it is due to a feeling of betrayal, where replacement cybernetics have caused more harm than good, and the poor soul shackled by them is looking for a form of release among the ranks of the Shriven. Others, after hearing the words of the Reformed, have come to understand that the continued existence of the Adeptus Mechanicus is nothing but a disaster waiting to happen, and that it is their holy duty to stand in judgement of this abominable organisation. Others join out of a fear that if they begin to receive cybernetics that they will lose something of their own souls, and eagerly join the ranks of the Untouched to avoid this horrific fate. A select few might even be contacted directly by the cult’s senior members, as their membership would greatly benefit the cult’s standing and appeal across the Sector. The cult also offers a strong brotherhood and a cause to motivate new meaning into previously meaningless lives. Those who achieve such purity in their flesh may find their spirit even stronger than before, and certainly stronger than those who foolishly trust their bodies to the uncaring and dispassionate machine.

Upon becoming a member of the Cult of the Pure Form, the character gains the **Excommunicate Mechanicum Trait**.

**Required Career:** Any except Tech-Priest
**Alternate Rank:** Cleric—Rank 2 or higher (500 xp); All others—Rank 4 or higher (2,000 xp)
**Other Requirements:** Any Acolyte who possess any bionics/cybernetics when taking this Alternate Rank must take the Purity of Flesh Talent before he may take any further Advances. Acolytes who do not possess any bionics/cybernetics when selecting this Rank must select the Gift of Purity Talent before they may take any further Advances.
#### **Trait: Excommunicate Mechanicum**
The Cult of the Pure Form is not a secretive group, in which members meet covertly in dank basements or crumbling hab blocks. They have made their presence felt and do not feel the need to hide their beliefs. The Mechanicus, in turn, view them as dangerous, misguided fools, and treat them with open disdain at best optimal servitor components at worst. Should any member of the Machine Cult learn of the Acolyte’s true allegiance, there could be dire consequences. If discovered, treat any member of the Mechanicus as having the lowest possible Disposition towards the character (and vice versa). The GM may even, in extreme situations, determine that acts of outright violence might be called for. Additionally, all forms of Interaction—even just speaking with members of the Machine Cult—are to be treated as **Arduous (–40)** before factoring in other modifiers.
#### **Table: Cult of the Pure Form Advances**
| Advance                                                                   | Cost |  Type  | Prerequisites                     |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------------- | :--: | :----: | --------------------------------- |
| [Blather](skills.md#blather)                                              | 100  | Skill  | —                                 |
| [Charm](skills.md#charm)                                                  | 100  | Skill  | —                                 |
| [Ciphers (Pure Form)](skills.md#ciphers)                                  | 100  | Skill  | —                                 |
| [Common Lore (Ecclesiarchy)](skills.md#common%20lore)                     | 100  | Skill  | —                                 |
| [Common Lore (Imperial Creed)](skills.md#common%20lore)                   | 100  | Skill  | —                                 |
| [Basic Weapon Training (Primitive)](talents.md#basic%20weapon%20training) | 100  | Talent | —                                 |
| [Flagellant](talents.md#flagellant)                                       | 100  | Talent | —                                 |
| [Hatred (Adeptus Mechanicus)](talents.md#hatred)                          | 100  | Talent | —                                 |
| [Peer (Ecclesiarchy)](talents.md#peer)                                    | 100  | Talent | Fel 30                            |
| [Pistol Training (Primitive)](talents.md#pistol%20training)               | 100  | Talent | —                                 |
| [Command](skills.md#command)                                              | 200  | Skill  | —                                 |
| [Common Lore (Machine Cult)](skills.md#common%20lore)                     | 200  | Skill  | —                                 |
| [Deceive](skills.md#deceive)                                              | 200  | Skill  | —                                 |
| [Intimidate](skills.md#intimidate)                                        | 200  | Skill  | —                                 |
| [Air of Authority](talents.md#air%20of%20authority)                       | 200  | Talent | Fel 30                            |
| [Basic Weapon Training (Melta)](talents.md#basic%20weapon%20training)     | 200  | Talent | —                                 |
| [Iron Discipline](talents.md#iron%20discipline)                           | 200  | Talent | WP 30, Command                    |
| [Pistol Training (Melta)](talents.md#pistol%20training)                   | 200  | Talent | —                                 |
| [Medicae](skills.md#medicae)                                              | 300  | Skill  | —                                 |
| [Litany of Hate](talents.md#litany%20of%20hate)                           | 300  | Talent | Hatred                            |
| [Peer (Inquisition)](talents.md#peer)                                     | 300  | Talent | Fel 30                            |
| **Gift of Purity**                                                        |  †   | Talent | —                                 |
| **Purity of Flesh**                                                       |  †   | Talent | —                                 |
| **Reformed Skin**                                                         |  †   | Talent | Gift of Purity or Purity of Flesh |
*†This Talent has no xp cost, but can only be selected under specific circumstances. See each Talent's description for details.*
#### **Talent: Gift of Purity**
The Acolyte has forsaken the cybernetic, cast out the desire for the bionic, and joined the ranks of the Untouched. Never will sacred flesh be sullied by the implantation of devices that rob the Acolyte of his purity. The character cannot, under any circumstances, choose or accept the implantation of cybernetics/bionics, even if the result of refusing them would result in certain death. If the character finds himself implanted with cybernetics/bionics against his will, then he must remove them as soon as possible, replacing this Talent with the Purity of Flesh instead. 

This Talent costs no xp to purchase, and is automatically granted to members of the Cult of the Pure Form who have no cybernetics/bionics when they take the Alternate Rank.
#### **Talent: Purity of Flesh**
The Acolyte has participated in the Purity of Flesh ritual and emerged alive. Taking his place amongst the Shriven, he has become truly blessed, and despite his missing limbs, eyes, and other organs, he feels more complete now than he ever did with his soulless metallic attachments. All cybernetics and bionics that the character had previously must be removed, including internal cybernetic implants. If doing so would normally result in the character’s death, such as in the case of a Bionic Respiratory System, the character must also take the Reformed Skin Talent to provide a life-saving replacement, permanently reducing his Toughness by 1d5 and Wounds by 1.

The effects of removing cybernetic implants is similar to sustaining [Critical Damage](injury%20and%20healing.md#serious%20injuries%20and%20conditions) and the Acolyte should be attended to by a trained medicae to reduce the risk of death from the process. Augmetics that provide additional specific effects, such as a mind impulse unit or bio-power cells, cease to do so once removed from the body. The character gains 1 additional Fate Point (up to a maximum of 5) for every two bionics that he has removed (with the exception of Mechadendrites). The character must remove each and every augmetic from his body before he receives this benefit, so characters with quite a few may need to spend considerable downtime recuperating between surgeries (allowing their Critical Damage to heal) before they increase their Fate Points. 

This Talent costs no xp to purchase and is automatically granted to members of the Cult of the Pure Form who have cybernetics/bionics when they take the Alternate Rank. The character counts as having the Gift of Purity Talent for the purposes of refusing new cybernetics.
#### **Talent: Reformed Skin**
For those Acolytes who prefer to remain whole physically as well as spiritually they may take on entirely new flesh to replace the hateful cybernetics that have been removed. A Cultist of the Pure Form may select this Talent as many times as he has missing limbs, senses, or organs—any human body part replaced with a cybernetic or lost due to Critical Damage.

When taken, the Acolyte gains a replacement body part reclaimed from a servitor or an executed criminal. The replacement is not a perfect analogue for the Acolyte's original flesh, however, and imposes the same penalties that a Poor Craftsmanship cybernetic would (and, obviously, does not confer a bonus to his Toughness or a reduced chance of death from Critical Effects). Superior examples, vat-grown in bioreactors to closely match the Acolyte's body, may be purchased for 75% the cost of a cybernetic replacement instead—these effectively duplicate the Acolyte's missing parts and impose no penalties on their use (but still doesn't grant any special benefits or effects that an augmetic part might).

Any Fate Points gained from the Purity of Flesh Talent are lost when the missing parts are replaced with Reformed Skin, so the pious cultist should consider carefully how much he's willing to go without when considering a flesh-crafted replacement. Unless the missing body part would lead to inevitable death, such as a bionic cardiac system, the Acolyte is under no obligation to actually take this Talent. Reformed Skin costs no xp to purchase, though there may be a cost in Thrones if the Acolyte wishes to utilise a better quality part. 
## **Malfian Bloodsworn**

*"Now be a nice gent and come here and bleed on this warrant for me, eh? Then I'll make it quick for ye, otherwise I'll get a bit put out, and well… I hate swabbing the floor and getting nice parchment dirty. Seems so… undignified like."*

— Auric Kenge, Chartered Bloodsworn
### **Background**
The Blood Guild of Malfi is one of the most infamous organisations of bounty hunters and man-trackers in the whole sector. It owes its origins to a long forgotten internecine war in Malfi's history of vendetta and civil infighting—a history that far predates Malfi's "liberation" during the Angevin Crusade. The Blood Guild has long served to track down, apprehend, or slaughter fugitives whose warrants have been issued by the Malfian Senate. The members of the guild, known as the Bloodsworn, are consummate professionals at their trade. Drafted from the ranks of hardened ex-Imperial Guard, disgraced Arbites, outcast armsmen from the noble houses, and all manner of killers and gunfighters come up from the underhive the hard way, Bloodsworn have a reputation as the best men at their craft that money can buy. This broad organisation operates only one rule—a warrant must be carried out scrupulously and reliably. The individual Bloodsworn owe little loyalty to each other, and indeed several guild members might seek to execute the same lucrative warrant, fully expecting that they'll need to deal with their fellow man-trackers—likely violently—should they cross paths. Such often lethal "competition" is all but encouraged in the guild as a means of weeding out those not up to the standards of the guild's reputation, and the scoundrels and cads often far outlast their more honourable fellows.

Most blood warrants are aptly named, issued in the form of a tough parchment scroll bearing the seal of the authorising body and carrying within it a gene-lock circuit amulet designed to identify the victim by their blood when spilled over it. Some warrants may add further gruesome specifics to the discharge notice, like the retrieval of a body part, or a particular method of death blow to be administered to the target. The returning of the bloodstained warrant results in payment drawn on Malfi's own Obsidian Chancellery. Uncommonly, the target of the blood warrant may be desired to be returned alive, either for trial, questioning, or an altogether more horrendous fate than a mercenary's blade through the neck. Even though the return of the living target obviously satisfies the contract, the blooded warrant must still be surrendered as an ancient custom (and necessarily requiring at least a minor amount of violence be done to the target). Regardless of the particulars of the contract, falsifying a blood warrant in any way is a dire matter indeed, and if such duplicity is detected a blood-price of impressive size is immediately placed on the head of the malefactor by the guild. The blood warrant is a sacred instrument, and woe to any fool who would defile its probity.

As a part of Malfi's often impenetrable legal code and endemic culture of vendetta, a holder of a Bloodsworn Charter has certain rights above that of a mere common hired gun. The warrant enables them to bear arms in the hive where others would not, access to legal record, enter private dwellings, and even avoid interference (largely) from local enforcers and armsmen in pursuit of their warrants. These powers have their limits, however, and any Bloodsworn had better be wary of just who's property they trample on or in whose territory they operate lest they risk an abrupt and possibly quite bloody end. Critically, their customary rights do not extend to the holdings or persons of the Adepta or Malfi's rulers, although few Bloodsworn would be so foolish as to expect their warrant would allow them to barge into an Ecclesiastical convent or 

Originally confined to the sprawling hive cities of Malfi, the Bloodsworn have spread throughout the Calixis since the Angevin Crusade, and a blood warrant will likely be recognised almost immediately across the Malfian sub-sector. For the right price, there is nowhere the Bloodsworn won't track down their prey, and tales of wanted men being tracked down even into the Koronus Expanse are far from the stuff of legends and holo-dramas. The Bloodsworn are afforded a fearful respect throughout almost every developed world of the Calixis Sector, and aside from their quasi-legal role as bounty hunters, many also turn their hands to assassination, personal protection, and mercenary work if the chance arises. To those in the know, merely flashing a copy of the Bloodsworn's charter is an instant qualification of the bearer's capabilities, and can thus demand a high price for their services.

More morally flexible Inquisitors are not above hiring members of the Bloodsworn into their own service for obvious reasons. The Bloodsworn's skill at stealth and tracking, to say nothing of the cover his charter provides, would be a powerful weapon in tracking down heretics and clandestine cultists so that they may face the Emperor's judgement. Some radical Inquisitors have even backed their Acolytes to become Bloodsworn purely for the boons such associations give to their covert operations, although such an aspirant would do well to conceal the nature of their benefactor.
### **Becoming a Malfian Bloodsworn**
Becoming part of the Blood Guild is deceptively simple: the candidates must make their way to one of the guild's charter houses on any of the main worlds of the Malfian sub-sector, offer payment of a thousand Throne gelt, and, as long as they themselves are not under a blood warrant and are not otherwise subject to "higher oath", they are given a "grey warrant" to execute. Grey warrants are those that have languished uncollected on the charter house's books for some time, usually because the money offered doesn't merit the danger or expenditure of time involved in the collection. To become Bloodsworn, all they need do is successfully claim the warrant by any means necessary. This could include the help of others, and assuming they're willing to participate in such an endeavour, might form a small adventure for the other Acolytes to aid in. Once successful, the candidate must then swear a blood oath to abide by the guild's covenants, adding a sample of their blood to the guild's gene registry of members. The candidate is given a guild symbol and a copy of his charter as credentials, and may thereafter claim the right to the title of "Bloodsworn" and execute lawful warrants anywhere the guild's authority is recognised. 

**Required Career:** Arbitrator, Assassin, Guardsman, or Scum
**Alternate Rank:** Rank 5 or higher (3,000 xp)
**Other Requirements:** Must gain a charter from the Blood Guild of Malfi. Arbitrators and Guardsmen must not be in active Imperial service when receiving their charter, and Acolytes of the Inquisition would need to conceal their true allegiance from the guild.
#### **Table: Malfian Bloodsworn Advances**
| Advance                                                                    | Cost |  Type  | Prerequisites                 |
| -------------------------------------------------------------------------- | :--: | :----: | ----------------------------- |
| [Charm](skills.md#charm)                                                   | 100  | Skill  | —                             |
| [Common Lore (Administratum)](skills.md#common%20lore)                     | 100  | Skill  | —                             |
| [Deceive](skills.md#deceive)                                               | 100  | Skill  | —                             |
| [Inquiry](skills.md#inquiry)                                               | 100  | Skill  | —                             |
| [Inquiry +10](skills.md#inquiry)                                           | 100  | Skill  | Inquiry                       |
| [Inquiry +20](skills.md#inquiry)                                           | 100  | Skill  | Inquiry +10                   |
| [Interrogation](skills.md#interrogation)                                   | 100  | Skill  | —                             |
| [Interrogation +10](skills.md#interrogation)                               | 100  | Skill  | Interrogation                 |
| [Search](skills.md#search)                                                 | 100  | Skill  | —                             |
| [Search +10](skills.md#search)                                             | 100  | Skill  | Search                        |
| [Security](skills.md#security)                                             | 100  | Skill  | —                             |
| [Security +10](skills.md#security)                                         | 100  | Skill  | Security                      |
| [Shadowing](skills.md#shadowing)                                           | 100  | Skill  | —                             |
| [Shadowing +10](skills.md#shadowing)                                       | 100  | Skill  | Shadowing                     |
| [Survival](skills.md#survival)                                             | 100  | Skill  | —                             |
| [Tracking](skills.md#tracking)                                             | 100  | Skill  | —                             |
| [Tracking +10](skills.md#tracking)                                         | 100  | Skill  | Tracking                      |
| [Basic Weapon Training (Bolt)](talents.md#basic%20weapon%20training)       | 100  | Talent | —                             |
| [Decadence](talents.md#decadence)                                          | 100  | Talent | T 30                          |
| [Hard Target](talents.md#hard%20target)                                    | 100  | Talent | Ag 40                         |
| [Heightened Senses (Hearing)](talents.md#heightened%20senses)              | 100  | Talent | —                             |
| [Heightened Senses (Sight)](talents.md#heightened%20senses)                | 100  | Talent | —                             |
| [Iron Jaw](Talents.md#iron%20jaw)                                          | 100  | Talent | T 40                          |
| [Jaded](Talents.md#jaded)                                                  | 100  | Talent | WP 30                         |
| [Peer (Underworld)](Talents.md#peer)                                       | 100  | Talent | Fel 30                        |
| [Pistol Training (Bolt)](Talents.md#pistol%20training)                     | 100  | Talent | —                             |
| [Rapid Reaction](Talents.md#rapid%20reaction)                              | 100  | Talent | Ag 40                         |
| [Street Fighter](Talents.md#street%20fighting)                             | 100  | Talent | —                             |
| [Barter](Skills.md#barter)                                                 | 200  | Skill  | —                             |
| [Carouse](Skills.md#carouse)                                               | 200  | Skill  | —                             |
| [Evaluate](Skills.md#evaluate)                                             | 200  | Skill  | —                             |
| [Forbidden Lore (Mutants)](Skills.md#forbidden%20lore)                     | 200  | Skill  | —                             |
| [Nerves of Steel](Talents.md#nerves%20of%20steel)                          | 200  | Talent | —                             |
| [Paranoia](Talents.md#paranoia)                                            | 200  | Talent | —                             |
| [Sound Constitution](Talents.md#sound%20constitution)†                     | 200  | Talent | —                             |
| [Talented (Inquiry)](Talents.md#talented)                                  | 200  | Talent | Inquiry                       |
| [Two-Weapon Wielder (Ballistic)](Talents.md#two-weapon%20wielder)          | 300  | Talent | BS 35, Ag 35                  |
| [Two-Weapon Wielder (Melee)](Talents.md#two-weapon%20wielder)              | 300  | Talent | WS 35, Ag 35                  |
| [Unarmed Warrior](talents.md#unarmed%20warrior%20%28ascendant%20talent%29) | 300  | Talent | WS 35, Ag 35                  |
| [Unarmed Master](talents.md#unarmed%20master%20%28ascendant%20talent%29)   | 500  | Talent | WS 45, Ag 40, Unarmed Warrior |
†*You may select this Talent twice at this Rank.*
## **Mortiurge**

*“….The Guild-Dame was shot twice at close range while seated at her desk, once to the heart and once to the head. Either wound would have been immediately fatal. The killer had gained access though the front door, posing as a Provost-Captain, and left the premises by walking calmly out the way he entered. Evidence recovered at the scene implicates the Guild-Dame and several other prominent Guilders of bribery of cinq-port officials and cadre enforcers. Arbites Castigation Detachments dispatched. See attached log of execution warrants #77–134…”*

— excerpt from Case-file Monograph, Inhumation of Lady Clasis Hortva, Arbites Marshal Gregor Lund reporting
### **Background**
In the Imperium, totalitarian control and summary justice are often the norm rather than the exception, particularly among the teeming multitudes of a hive world. Minor criminals—vandals, drunkards, vagrants, trespassers, petty thieves, and their ilk—rarely see the inside of a court of law, not that most of them would have the means to pay for the services of a magistrate to advocate for their defence in the first place. The lawgivers, typically local enforcer cadres, are often authorised to mete out punishments on the spot, be they monetary forfeiture, confinement, some form of public humiliation, or just a modest taste of the boot and the truncheon. The great legal code, the Corpus Presidium Calixis, drafted by Drusus himself, specifies many such punishments and penalties for those who can't stay on the straight and narrow, and there are innumerable planetary and even regional laws and customs that could criminalise all sorts of conduct.

Generally speaking, more serious crimes—murder, sedition, obstruction of the Imperial tithe, theft of Adepta property, and so forth—are either punished with execution or very long incarceration. Although it is often perfunctory, a court is usually convened, and magistrates make their arguments for and against the guilt of the accused, present evidences, and partake in other acts of legal manoeuvring to get their desired outcome. If the accused is well-heeled or well-connected (and especially if they're both) this process can go on for quite a while, and the guilty sometimes go free over arcane technicalities and legal semantics.

In some cases, the authorities cannot allow that chance. The guilty must face the most severe sanction, urgently, before any other variables might derail the course of justice. Accordingly, both the Adeptus Arbites and many local enforcer cadres have need of hardened men and women whose talent lays in dealing death and summary execution, administering judgement before the frivolities of law can interfere. Singled out and specially trained to operate independently, both as snipers and close-quarter gunfighters,these specialists are commonly referred to as Mortiurges.

These troopers are typically drawn from enforcer kill squads under the direct jurisdiction of a ranking warden, or the feared Arbites Castigation Detachments tasked to deliver the Emperor’s wrath on the recidivist and those who would contravene Imperial Law without fear or favour.
Even among these cold-blooded killers, however, a Mortiurge would only be selected from those whose particular skill and callous dedication to their lethal duty makes them stand out from the rest of their fellow lawgivers.

By the nature of their work a Mortiurge works alone, singled out from his fellows by his differences in purpose, the blood on his hands, more often than not, a severe disaffection towards the normal process of law. In truth little more than judicially recognised assassins, they are often also employed to keep other lawgivers in check when needs require. As such, these singular killers are may be shunned by their colleagues and quickly learn to keep their distance, lest one day they be
called on to slaughter a friend who's been accused of a grievous misdeed and for whom facing a magistrate is far more than they deserve.

Perhaps unsurprisingly, some in the Holy Ordos, particularly members of its radical faction, whose doctrines and intrigues take them into direct and often covert conflict with the Imperium’s own authorities, find ready use for these highly efficient, if wholly disreputable, agents of order and social control. Inquisitors find unique advantage in a servant who is not only a highly trained killer, but who is also intimately familiar with law-enforcement procedures and willing to take out any target without passion or regret.
### **Becoming a Mortiurge**
Arbitrators who take on the role of the Mortiurge seldom do so voluntarily, as it makes them sanctioned assassins rather than servants of the law, but their presence in the Adeptus Arbites itself is considered by many a necessary evil. Those that do embrace becoming a Mortiurge often fall into two categories; the embittered and jaded veteran whose skills make them a valuable asset worth saving, perhaps despite their increasingly disruptive and rogue attitudes, and the cold-blooded killer, to whom the role of judge, jury and executioner appeals on some dark and fundamental level.

For enforcers, whose standards of morality and motivations are often notably more base than their Arbites counterparts, becoming a Moriturge could be seen as something of a promotion for those who enjoy kicking in doors more than taking bribes and beating hooligan juvies. Granted considerably greater freedom to act and persecute reprobates in their communities, the enforcer Mortiurge often goes about his work with an almost mirthful enthusiasm—from humble beginnings, he has become a law unto himself.

**Required Career:** Arbitrator, Assassin, Guardsman, or Scum
**Alternate Rank:** Rank 5 or higher (3,000 xp)
**Other Requirements:** Unless the character is an Arbitrator, they must have the [Enforcer](background%20packages.md#enforcer) Background Package and be serving in such a cadre when this Alternate Career Rank is taken.
#### **Table: Mortiurge Advances**
| Advance                                                                         | Cost |  Type  | Prerequisites                   |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | :--: | :----: | ------------------------------- |
| [Shadowing](Skills.md#shadowing)                                                | 100  | Skill  | —                               |
| [Shadowing +10](Skills.md#shadowing)                                            | 100  | Skill  | Shadowing                       |
| [Shadowing +20](Skills.md#shadowing)                                            | 100  | Skill  | Shadowing +10                   |
| [Security](Skills.md#security)                                                  | 100  | Skill  | —                               |
| [Marksman](Talents.md#marksman)                                                 | 100  | Talent | BS 35                           |
| [Scholastic Lore (Judgement) +10](Skills.md#scholastic%20lore)                  | 200  | Skill  | Scholastic Lore (Judgement)     |
| [Scholastic Lore (Judgement) +20](Skills.md#scholastic%20lore)                  | 200  | Skill  | Scholastic Lore (Judgement) +10 |
| [Security +10](Skills.md#security)                                              | 200  | Skill  | Security                        |
| [Crack Shot](Talents.md#crack%20shot)                                           | 200  | Talent | BS 40                           |
| [Exotic Weapon Training (Needle Pistol)](Talents.md#exotic%20weapon%20training) | 200  | Talent | —                               |
| [Exotic Weapon Training (Needle Rifle)](Talents.md#exotic%20weapon%20training)  | 200  | Talent | —                               |
| [Mighty Shot](Talents.md#mighty%20shot)                                         | 200  | Talent | BS 40                           |
| [Talented (Security)](Talents.md#talented)                                      | 200  | Talent | Security                        |
| [Talented (Shadowing)](Talents.md#talented)                                     | 200  | Talent | Shadowing                       |
| [Deadeye Shot](Talents.md#deadeye%20shot)                                       | 300  | Talent | BS 35                           |
| [Last Man Standing](Talents.md#last%20man%20standing)                           | 300  | Talent | Nerves of Steel                 |
| [Nerves of Steel](Talents.md#nerves%20of%20steel)                               | 300  | Talent | —                               |
| [Sharpshooter](Talents.md#sharpshooter)                                         | 300  | Talent | BS 40, Deadeye Shot             |
## **Ordo Sicarius Initiate**

"Some may be able to avoid the Judges of the Adeptus Arbites. Fewer may be able to face off against the Imperial Guard, and perhaps even the Adeptus Astartes. None can stand against the Officio Assassinorum."

— Tarik Ziz, Callidus Director Secundus
### **Background**
At the end of the Age of Apostasy and Goge Vandire’s despotic rule came a shadow conflict few have heard of and many participants did not survive: the Wars of Vindication within the Officio Assassinorum. The Officio had become riddled with corruption, and the Grand Master of Assassins was forced to kill many of its members in order to fully eliminate those still loyal to the deposed High Lord or who had fallen into irredeemable degeneracy during his rule. The Officio’s hierarchy was utterly shattered and needed to be rebuilt from the ground up, and for a time there was some discussion amongst the new High Lords that the Officio itself might be dissolved. 

As fellows of clandestine warfare, the Inquisition came to the Officio Assassinorum's aid during this moment of great peril. Following a thorough investigation and taking of accounts, Inquisitor Jaeger of the Ordo Hereticus deemed that a special order of the Inquisition would be created to help rebuild the Officio, and subsequently monitor and control some of its functions much more
closely than had occurred before. His proposal was accepted, and the Ordo Sicarius was created, with Jeager as its first Lord Inquisitor. As the Officio Assassinorum is a highly secretive branch of the Imperial hierarchy, Jeager and his henchmen understood that maintaining a typical hierarchy of control was out of the question. To preserve the Officio's ability to rive seamlessly through Imperial society the Ordo Sicarius would not maintain any formal structures outside it, instead fulfilling their duty by planting Assassin-Acolytes and, indeed, a few Inquisitors within their ranks. 

The masters of the Assassinorum know of the existence of these Ordo Sicarius agents, but not their number, postings, or individual identities. The Assassinorum and Sicarius follow an informal set of guidelines toward their unusual arrangement. Officially, the Officio Assassinorum does not attempt to expose or identify Sicarius agents, but those who are identified are marked and reported as such to their masters, who will withdraw and reassign the "made" agent. In return, if a Sicarius agent does uncover heresy or some dire conspiracy within the Assassinorum, the Ordo Sicarius will work in cooperation with the rest of the Officio to excise the malignant element with an absolute minimum disruption to their operations. Once a Sicarius agent is "made", his time secreted within the Officio Assassinorum is over, but the Inquisition has a great many other tasks that an expert at deception and guile could turn their hands to.

One notable example of the Ordo Sicarius' work dates from the early years of the 39th Millennium. Praetor Golgenna Angevin, a well-connected noble of the Terran Court, was raised to the rank of Lord Militant and granted a writ to prosecute a crusade to liberate and return the worlds of the Calyx Expanse to the Imperial fold. Among a cadre of Angevin's trusted counsellors and chamberlains was a man by the name of Dario Vereschagin. Unknown to Angevin or any of the others at the time, this servant was in actuality one Inquisitor Treyus Godan of the Ordo Sicarius. Inquisitor Godan's purpose was to monitor Angevin's crusade and to determine, on behalf of the Inquisition, whether or not such a singularly powerful individual was still loyal to the Imperium and faithfully executing the duties he was charged with. If he was not, then it was Godan's duty to eliminate him before Angevin turned the vast forces of the Crusade towards his own ends. A number of members of the Inquisition were openly serving in the forces of the Crusade, and could ostensibly fulfil the same purpose as Godan, but if the Lord Militant did betray the Imperium these badge-wearing agents and Inquisitors could conceivably be eliminated, or worse, co-opted. Godan, then, could serve as an additional measure to guarantee Angevin's loyalty. 

As the Crusade entered its third and final stage, Godan personally witnessed Angevin's acclaimed General Drusus slain by a rogue assassin. When Drusus rose from the dead, Godan was one of the first of the Crusade's leaders to recognise him as a living saint, a sure sign that the God-Emperor had blessed the Crusade's success with His divinity. Capitalising on this moment, Godan "revealed" himself as an Inquisitor of the Ordo Malleus and officially (albeit without any sort of formal authorisation) declared the Inquisition's support of the new living saint. Reinvigorated by this moment of holy righteousness (and significant resources diverted by Inquisitorial forces) the Crusade barrelled ahead with newfound vigour, and most of the remaining worlds of Calyx were returned to the God-Emperor's light not long thereafter. Critically, by making the resurrection of Drusus a matter of Inquisitorial import, the conspirators who had him assassinated were outed, and the possibility of a religious schism over whether Drusus was truly a living saint or not was quickly put to rest before it could threaten the Crusade's revitalised momentum.

Godan, for his part, was censured for impersonating an Inquisitor, but received clemency in light of the undeniable results of his duplicity, and disappeared from the record shortly thereafter. Only a few within the Inquisition ever knew Godan was a member of the Ordo Sicarius, much less had been clandestinely monitoring the Crusade's progress and guiding the hands of its leaders the entire time. To this day, even many within the Holy Ordos are only vaguely aware of the existence of the Sicarius in the first place, but few would doubt their capability at deception and the crafting of cover identities for deep infiltration. Inquisitors whose work entails delicate and surreptitious investigation are often pleased to have an initiate of the Ordo Sicarius in their service, although some might give pause to the notion that the Sicarius-trained Acolyte could be keeping tabs on them at the same time...
### **Becoming an Ordo Sicarius Initiate**
Becoming an initiate of the Ordo Sicarius is no simple feat. The Acolyte in question must be both a skilled warrior and very capable at subterfuge. The vast majority of its members were chosen for induction by Assassin-Inquisitors of the Ordo Sicarius itself, the prospective initiates merely given a dataslate with the name of a target, and a stated goal of "Interrogation and Extermination required" written underneath. How, or even if, the prospect goes about this mission is his decision. Assuming the assignment is successfully completed, and the work is judged to be adequate, the prospect is clandestinely taken to the Ordo Sicarius' main temple and begins his training in the ways of the Assassin-Inquisitors.

**Required Career:** Any
**Alternate Rank:** Rank 4 or higher (2,000 xp)
#### **Table: Ordo Sicarius Initiate Advances**
| Advance                                                                 | Cost | Type   | Prerequisites                  |
| ----------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---- | ------ | ------------------------------ |
| [Ciphers (Underworld)](skills.md#ciphers)                               | 100  | Skill  | —                              |
| [Deceive](skills.md#deceive)                                            | 100  | Skill  | —                              |
| [Deceive +10](skills.md#deceive)                                        | 100  | Skill  | Deceive                        |
| [Disguise](skills.md#disguise)                                          | 100  | Skill  | —                              |
| [Disguise +10](skills.md#disguise)                                      | 100  | Skill  | Disguise                       |
| [Forbidden Lore (Cults)](skills.md#forbidden%20lore)                    | 100  | Skill  | —                              |
| [Forbidden Lore (Officio Assassinorum)](skills.md#forbidden%20lore)     | 100  | Skill  | —                              |
| [Interrogation](skills.md#interrogation)                                | 100  | Skill  | —                              |
| [Concealment](skills.md#concealment)                                    | 200  | Skill  | —                              |
| [Concealment +10](skills.md#concealment)                                | 200  | Skill  | Concealment                    |
| [Forbidden Lore (Cults) +10](skills.md#forbidden%20lore)                | 200  | Skill  | F. Lore (Cults)                |
| [Forbidden Lore (Officio Assassinorum) +10](skills.md#forbidden%20lore) | 200  | Skill  | F. Lore (Officio Assassinorum) |
| [Inquiry](skills.md#inquiry)                                            | 200  | Skill  | —                              |
| [Shadowing](skills.md#shadowing)                                        | 200  | Skill  | —                              |
| [Shadowing +10](skills.md#shadowing)                                    | 200  | Skill  | Shadowing                      |
| [Hip Shooting](talents.md#hip%20shooting)                               | 200  | Talent | BS 40, Ag 40                   |
| [Resistance (Fear)](talents.md#resistance)                              | 200  | Talent | —                              |
| [Resistance (Psychic Powers)](talents.md#resistance)                    | 200  | Talent | —                              |
| **Sicarius Training**†                                                  | 200  | Talent | Special                        |
†*You may select this Talent up to three times for this Alternate Rank.*
#### **Talent: Sicarius Training**
The time an Acolyte spends among the most ruthless and efficient agents of stealth, deception, and murder can manifest itself in all matters of ways. Acolytes who study with agents of the Callidus Temple learn the ways of deep infiltration and flawless disguise, whilst those who spend their time among the Vindicare become highly proficient lurkers and shadesmen who can slip through security like water through a sieve. Each time you purchase this Talent select one of the following benefits:

* **Arms Aficionado:** At some point you developed a particular interest in an unusual weapon, and the Ordo Sicarius has had you study with a master of that device to further your deadly ambitions. You gain an [Exotic Weapon Training](talents.md#exotic%20weapon%20training) Talent of your choice.
* **Blackjack:** Months of working alongside the most resolute killers in Calixis has taught you how to unnerve even the most hardened adversaries with your baleful presence alone. You gain the [Disturbing Voice](talents.md#disturbing%20voice) Talent.
* **Blade Dancer:** Many Assassins are inclined to take their quarry up close, preferring the tactile certainty of the sword and dagger over a gun or bomb. You've come to see their way of thinking. You gain your choice of either the [Sure Strike](talents.md#sure%20strike) or [Swift Attack](talents.md#swift%20attack) Talent.
* **Demanding Tutelage:** Your training has ruthlessly tested the limitations of what your body can endure, but your masters were thoughtful and wise enough to only bring you the edge of what you can recuperate from. You gain the [Sound Constitution](talents.md#sound%20constitution) Talent.
* **Logical Liar:** You have memorised a staggering number of reasonable responses to common inquiries and can craft rationally believable falsehoods on-the-fly. You may substitute your Intelligence Characteristic in place of Fellowship when making Deceive Tests.
* **Part of the Scenery:** Your tutors have taught you to remain motionless for hours and possibly even days on end, your exact position monitored by unblinking servitors for even the slightest twitch. You gain the [Talented (Concealment)](talents.md#talented) Talent. If you already possess this Talent, its bonus increases to +15 instead of the usual +10.
* **Thought Mapping:** Infiltrator-savants of the Sicarius have taught you the science of predicting lines of questioning, and through logistaristic formulae you can often predict the path of a conversation well ahead of those you're speaking with. You may substitute your Intelligence Characteristic in place of Fellowship when making Inquiry Tests.
* **Well Connected:** A myriad of false identities, pulled strings, and brazen yet surprisingly convincing lies has created a persona with contacts in a useful organisation or social group. You gain a [Peer](talents.md#peer) Talent of your choice.
* **Wraith:** You have spent countless hours tracking masters of the art of stealth, honing an ability to think ahead and predict your prey's clandestine movements. You gain the [Talented (Shadowing)](talents.md#talented) Talent. If you already possess this Talent, its bonus increases to +15 instead of the usual +10.

Note that if a benefit of this Talent grants you another Talent you must still be able to meet the prerequisites, if any, for that Talent in order to accept it.
## **Saboteur**

*"Any problem in the world can be solved with the careful application of high explosives. The trick is not to be around when they go off."*

— attributed to an ancient Terran warlord
### **Background**
 It is said by some of the more philosophically-minded Administratum thralls that everything within the Imperium is connected by endless invisible threads of interdependence, a vast web of commerce, trade, and movement of men that binds the whole together. From the astropathic messages brought to the table of a lord, to the food eaten by the lowest worker in a forge, all depends on something else to exist, and those in turn on other things. These threads of reliance form a vast entanglement of power and stability on which order, faith, and indeed survival itself depends. It is the destruction of these threads that is the Saboteur’s purpose, and for many, their most beloved art.

Saboteurs are craftsmen of panic, destruction, and downfall—sometimes all three at once! They are the loosed dogs of secret wars of destabilisation and terror that rage in the shadows of the Imperium of Mankind. Trained to move unseen amongst the great flocks of humanity, the Saboteur is a faceless agent of fear, mayhem, and death that attacks the physical and psychological fabric that binds the Imperium together. Many act as tools or proxies of larger conspiracies, sowing fear among the people and crippling the local authorities' means to resist the hideous plans of the Saboteur's employers. Others ply their trade for their own goals alone, seeking to topple institutions and spires out of personal animus for the rulers and powerful, or even just for the perverse joy of destruction itself.

Acolytes of the Inquisition are most likely to encounter a Saboteur in the course of an investigation, and will almost certainly be attempting to thwart the Saboteur's plans before they can threaten the very fabric of Imperial society. Yet, it is also not unheard-of for such cold monsters of terror to be found in the service of an Inquisitor. While unconventional in the main, it is true that grand conspiracies and heretical sects often depend on their own networks of information and material to enact their vile plots. Once uncovered, these can be severed with explosives and other clandestine, underhanded tactics just as easily, if not more so, than with a Storm Trooper deployment or a raid by an Arbites Suppression Squad. 

Sometimes a very deeply-rooted heresy can corrupt planetary authorities to its will or ephemerally secret itself within local institutions, becoming all but undetectable to even the all-seeing eye of the Inquisition. In such situations, a more radical Inquisitor might set loose Saboteur Acolytes to destabilise those very organisations, depriving the heretics of the facade of normality and pushing them out into the open. The cost in both infrastructure and innocent lives is often high, but those who would deliberately send an entire hive into anarchy to expose dire conspiracies within its guild halls and enforcer forts are quick to point out that a more "conventional", that is to say brute force, approach would likely be even worse.
### **Becoming a Saboteur**
A Saboteur's qualifications are deceptively simple: move surreptitiously and cause a great deal of targeted destruction. A Saboteur Acolyte will often lean on the training and institutional knowledge of his existing Career to identify structural and organisational weaknesses, areas where a little explosives or poison gas will have outsize effects on the body he's been called to cripple. No two Saboteurs are alike, and such an Acolyte is just as likely to be a dutiful servant calmly practising a trade for his master as he is to be a barely-contained menace, gleefully terrorising his fellow men with official justification that's often entirely too flimsy.

**Required Career:** Any except Soroitas or Tech-Priest
**Alternate Rank:** Rank 3 or higher (1,000 xp).
#### **Table: Saboteur Advances**
| Advance                                           | Cost | Type   | Prerequisites   |
| ------------------------------------------------- | ---- | ------ | --------------- |
| [Chem-Use](skills.md#chem-use)                    | 100  | Skill  | —               |
| [Concealment](skills.md#concealment)              | 100  | Skill  | —               |
| [Demolition](skills.md#demolition)                | 100  | Skill  | —               |
| [Disguise](skills.md#disguise)                    | 100  | Skill  | —               |
| [Security](skills.md#security)                    | 100  | Skill  | —               |
| [Concealed Cavity](talents.md#concealed%20cavity) | 100  | Talent | —               |
| [Unremarkable](talents.md#unremarkable)           | 100  | Talent | —               |
| [Chem-Use +10](skills.md#chem-use)                | 200  | Skill  | Chem-Use        |
| [Concealment +10](skills.md#concealment)          | 200  | Skill  | Concealment     |
| [Demolition +10](skills.md#demolition)            | 200  | Skill  | Demolition      |
| [Disguise +10](skills.md#disguise)                | 200  | Skill  | Disguise        |
| [Security +10](skills.md#security)                | 200  | Skill  | Security        |
| [Tech-Use](skills.md#tech-use)                    | 200  | Skill  | —               |
| [Chem-Use +20](skills.md#chem-use)                | 300  | Skill  | Chem-Use +10    |
| [Concealment + 20](skills.md#concealment)         | 300  | Skill  | Concealment +10 |
| [Demolition +20](skills.md#demolition)            | 300  | Skill  | Demolition +10  |
| [Security +20](skills.md#security)                | 300  | Skill  | Security +10    |
| [Tech-Use +10](skills.md#tech-use)                | 300  | Skill  | Tech-Use        |
## **Sin Eater**

*“I am damned, my soul is forfeit, I who was pure am now darkened. This service I must do, this sacrifice I must make, for the Emperor and His glory.”*

— excerpt from the forbidden words of Oblation
### **Background**
Among the various sects of the Calixian Inquisition's radical faction the Oblationists are perhaps the most divisive and controversial who have not been declared as heretics outright by their puritan counterparts. At the core of the Oblationist creed is the total conviction that the power of the warp is corrupting without exception or degree: all touched by it are damned. Yet these powers are the most powerful weapon against the enemies that conspire to consume mankind—refusing to use them, over petty self-interest for one's own soul, is therefore an act of pure cowardice. The Oblationist sees the decision to wield daemon weapons, bind unhallowed servants, and learn the arts of the sorcerer—or abstaining from such methods—as a choice between damnation and the sacred duty to the God-Emperor. To this choice there are two possible responses: to withhold one’s hands from the weapons of the enemy and remain pure and impotent, or to damn oneself by taking up those weapons, an ultimate act of sacrifice in service to the Emperor. To the Oblationist, this is no choice at all. A pure servant of the Emperor, who offers his very soul in His cause, may bend the weapons of Chaos to serve Mankind.

Sin Eaters are the manifestation of Oblationism taken to its fullest extent. These grim men and
women have been trusted with the truth about the warp, its absolutely corrupting influence and yet, paradoxically, an ultimate weapon against the greatest and most ravenous enemies of man. A few pure servants of the Emperor must tread this path of ruin and walk willingly into damnation if all are to be saved. Having accepted this truth and proved their loyalty to their Inquisitor, an Acolyte may be submitted to terrible ordeals, invested with a dictate to destroy any others who stray into damnation, and thus become a Sin Eater. Austere in aspect and nature, a Sin Eater is a merciless warrior who is prepared and trained to meet the powers of the witch and the daemon head-on, no matter the personal cost.

The ordeal that creates a Sin Eater is a ritual of pain and damnation, torturous to both mind and body. While a choir of blind priests chant sacred verses, prospective Sin Eaters must confess every sin of thought, word, or deed that they have ever committed. No matter how slight the sin they must give it voice, and with every confessed sin their body is burned by a brand, cut with a blessed knife, or tattooed with ink mixed from the blood of heretics. The marks themselves are variously sacred, diabolic, or arcane, and the ordeal persists until all of the subject’s sins have been confessed and their body is sheeted in marks of damnation and sacred power. Those who cannot bear this extended torment would have no hope of withstanding the horrors a Sin Eater is expected to face. Assuming the prospect is of sufficient mental and corporeal fortitude to endure such debasement, the Sin Eater's wounds are poulticed with crematorium ash, and they are proclaimed to be amongst the lost and the damned, so tainted that they are capable of no further or greater sin.

Once created, the sacred charge of a Sin Eater is the destruction of the daemon and the execution of the unclean without mercy, the only exception to the warp-tainted being fellow Oblationists. This absolutely uncompromising attitude has earned begrudging respect from even the Monodominants of the Inquisition's puritan faction, although few would ever admit to it. It is not uncommon for an Oblationist Inquisitor to entrust their Sin Eaters with weapons of daemonic or malefic power, trusting that the will of the Sin Eater is enough to wield such weapons and stay true to his purpose. Thus unhallowed, scarred, and armed with fell tools of destruction, the Sin Eater is a foe that any heretic within the Imperium, outside its bounds, or beyond its truth must fear.
### **Becoming a Sin Eater**
Only the most committed Oblationist would even consider becoming a Sin Eater. The process is agonising and then some, the Acolyte degrading himself with a recitation of every sin and misdeed he's ever committed as his body is tattooed, branded, and otherwise mortified. Even if the Sin Eater passes this ordeal with Emperor-like grace, he is still forever marked—quite literally—as a committed radical to his peers. Becoming a Sin Eater represents a significant investiture of both authority and trust by the Oblationist Inquisitor, and is never undertaken lightly, or without complete imprimatur on the Acolyte's part. While some Inquisitors are more than content to dragoon their henchmen into various roles with or without their consent, but in the case of creating a Sin Eater, only the truly willing are even considered.

Upon becoming a Sin Eater, the character gains the [Flagellant Talent](talents.md#flagellant), the **Sin Scarred Trait**, and 3d10 Corruption Points.

**Required Career:** Arbitrator, Assassin, or Guardsman
**Alternate Rank:** Rank 4 or higher (2,000 xp)
**Other Requirements:** Toughness 35 and Willpower 35. The Acolyte must be an Oblationist.
#### **Trait: Sin Scarred**
Your flesh has been covered with tattoos, brands, and ritual scars, creating an elaborate protective ward against the worst the warp has to offer. These marks, both sacred and profane, grant you the [Unnatural Toughness (4) Trait](traits.md#unnatural%20characteristic%20%28X%29) when reducing Damage from daemons (both ranged and melee attacks), Psychic Powers, psy-active weapons (such as Daemon Weapons or Force Weapons) and Holy Damage. You also gain a +20 bonus to your Willpower for the purposes of Daemonic Mastery Tests or when determining the character’s Willpower in comparison to that of a Daemon Weapon's.
#### **Table: Sin Eater Advances**
| Advance                                                               | Cost | Type   | Prerequisites                      |
| --------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---- | ------ | ---------------------------------- |
| [Armour of Contempt](Talents.md#armour%20of%20contempt)               | 100  | Talent | WP 40                              |
| [Berserk Charge](Talents.md#berserk%20charge)                         | 100  | Talent | —                                  |
| [Combat Master](Talents.md#combat%20master)                           | 100  | Talent | WS 30                              |
| [Crushing Blow](Talents.md#crushing%20blow)                           | 100  | Talent | S 40                               |
| [Dark Soul](Talents.md#dark%20soul)                                   | 100  | Talent | —                                  |
| [Hatred (Daemons)](Talents.md#hatred)                                 | 100  | Talent | —                                  |
| [Hatred (Mutants)](Talents.md#hatred)                                 | 100  | Talent | —                                  |
| [Hatred (Psykers)](Talents.md#hatred)                                 | 100  | Talent | —                                  |
| [Jaded](Talents.md#jaded)                                             | 100  | Talent | WP 30                              |
| [Meditation](Talents.md#meditation)                                   | 100  | Talent | —                                  |
| [Melee Weapon Training (Chain)](Talents.md#melee%20weapon%20training) | 100  | Talent | —                                  |
| [Melee Weapon Training (Power)](Talents.md#melee%20weapon%20training) | 100  | Talent | —                                  |
| [Orthoproxy](Talents.md#orthoproxy)                                   | 100  | Talent | —                                  |
| [Resistance (Psychic Powers)](Talents.md#resistance)                  | 100  | Talent | —                                  |
| [Sound Constitution](Talents.md#sound%20constitution)†                | 100  | Talent | —                                  |
| [Forbidden Lore (Daemonology)](Skills.md#forbidden%20lore)            | 200  | Skill  | —                                  |
| [Forbidden Lore (Psykers)](Skills.md#forbidden%20lore)                | 200  | Skill  | —                                  |
| [Forbidden Lore (Warp)](Skills.md#forbidden%20lore)                   | 200  | Skill  | —                                  |
| [Scholastic Lore (Occult)](Skills.md#scholastic%20lore)               | 200  | Skill  | —                                  |
| [Strong Minded](Talents.md#strong%20minded)                           | 200  | Talent | WP 30, Resistance (Psychic Powers) |
| [Fearless](Talents.md#fearless)                                       | 300  | Talent | —                                  |
| [Mental Fortress](Talents.md#mental%20fortress)                       | 300  | Talent | WP 50, Strong Minded               |
†*You may select this Talent three times at this Rank.*
## **Slate-Agent**

*"And who am I to be this year, hmm? A wealthy functionary in a dubious merchant guild? No? Hmm, perhaps a pampered Ecclesiastic keeping watch for detestable heresy within a suspect sect? Still no, eh? Well then, can I spend the majority of this mission indoors at least? Another Imperial Guard unit? How do heretics keep managing to sneak into those! Well at least I won't remember any of it after retrieval..."*

— a Slate-Agent, currently named Cavel Posdanik
### **Background**
On the planet of Malfi, a place often considered the "second capital" of the Calixis Sector, the men and women of the ruling class play a vicious game of politics and favour. This game is played not on any game-board, but in every palace, mansion, and villa. It is not played with pieces, but with the livelihood of their dynasties. The strategy of this game lies with political manoeuvring and favourable alliances. The stakes of this game are neither bragging rights nor pride, they are the very existence of the noble family, and the rights of rulership. The greatest advantage in this game of political infighting is information, preferably that which could shame and discredit a rival. In the pursuit of this sort of information the noble houses of Malfi have each developed methods particular to their own dynasty. It was for this purpose that the first Slate-Agents were trained. The Malfian house which first created the Slate-Agents is long forgotten, whether fallen to obscurity or risen to heights beyond all recognition, none can say. What is well known, however, is the efficacy of the Slate-Agent as a spy and operative. The secrets of creating a Slate-Agent escaped the Malfian backstabber-lords over a century ago, and other powerful organisations in Calixis—namely the Inquisition and the Adeptus Arbites—are known to employ these unique savant-moles for deep undercover work.

Masters of subterfuge and disguise, each Slate-Agent is a perfect operative of infiltration and observation. It is the gruelling process of their creation which makes a Slate-Agent so optimally crafted for their intended job. The first stage of a Slate-Agent's conditioning is aimed at wholly annihilating any sense of self possessed by the recruit, reducing them to little more than a biological machine in the service of their masters. It is from this state that Slate-Agents receive  heir moniker, as from this point forward, each Agent is a "blank-slate" on which new identities can be written. To achieve this, recruits are deprived of sleep, food, water, and dignity, as well as forced to endure horrific psychological torments, all the while they are watched for signs of opposition or rebelliousness. Once the recruit has been reduced to an entirely pliant and workable state, the trainers begin the slow process of rebuilding their charge. Using incredibly complex and methodical hypno-indoctrination techniques they prepare the recruit's mind to take shape around cover-identities, each of which includes skills, history, profession, and contacts, as well as personality and mannerisms, all combined to provide a flawless cover for the Slate-Agent. The trainers use psycho-conditioning to thread the recruit's psyche with triggers and fail-safes, in order to reset the conditioning once their mission is complete. Oft-times the conditioning of Slate-Agents is so complete that during their missions they are wholly unaware of their true identity until their loyalty is tested, at which point, deep-planted hypno-barriers close off the mind to any possibility of traitorous or mutinous thoughts.

Gathering information about one's target is the primary directive of each Agent. Infiltrating a targeted organisation, gaining access to its members' most heavily guarded secrets, and leaving no doubt as to their unfaltering loyalty to their target, these are the core objectives of each Slate- Agent's mission. The specifics may change depending on the Slate-Agent's controller and his targeted organisation, but information is the primary stock and trade of the Slate-Agent. For Malfian agents, having an ally so flawlessly inserted into an enemy's ranks often proves a dangerous temptation, for it is a simple thing to include a kill-order alongside the multitude of mundane orders during the templating process. This form of assassination is harshly frowned upon by the Malfian courts, although only because it would swiftly become a form of mutually assured destruction were this practice to become accepted. For Slate-Agents employed by other organisations, of course, there's often far less hesitation to deploy such an operative for both intelligence-gathering and murder should the opportunity arise.

Malfian Slate-Agents are often considered to be costly but ultimately disposable tools of espionage, meant to be deeply secreted within a rival house to feed information to their masters for as long as possible. Given the ever-changing nature of Inquisitorial work, those Slate-Agents who have been conditioned for use by agents of the Inquisition are often more aware of their true identity, at least subconsciously, and have even been known to have been templated with a multitude of identities at the same time. Slate-Agents in the employ of an Inquisitor can be seen as more of a deck of cards, able to flawlessly shift into a different cover identity as the needs of the mission dictate. This makes them an exceptional weapon to infiltrate corrupt organisations and heretical cults, and unlike the Malfian power-players, the Inquisition is absolutely not above utilising a Slate-Agent to terminate key members of a group they've been secreted into.
### **Becoming a Slate-Agent**
There is no set procedure by which men and women are chosen to become Slate-Agents. Functionally a softer form of mind-cleansing, the process is still painful and harrowing, and only the most absolutely devoted, penitent, or deranged would wholly volunteer to undergo the templating. Many Slate-Agents are coerced into the role by their masters, while others are all but forced to be "slated" as a form of penance for a severe failure. Inquisitors with a more whimsical idea of justice have been known to compel spies who have been caught infiltrating Inquisitorial properties or organisations to accept becoming a Slate-Agent. This allows the outsider to turn their existing talents at subterfuge to the Inquisition's benefit while giving a very effective guarantee of their loyalty to their new masters.

Upon becoming a Slate-Agent, the character gains the **Blank Slate Trait**.

**Required Career**: Any
**Alternate Rank:** Rank 6 or higher (6,000 xp)
**Other Requirements:** [Unremarkable](talents.md#unremarkable) Talent
#### **Trait: Blank Slate**
The Acolyte is imprinted with several psychic triggers, known only to his handler. These triggers serve as prompts for the Slate-Agent’s identity programming. One trigger wipes the Slate-Agent’s mind clean of previous imprinting. Another prepares the Agent’s mind for re-programming. When a Slate-Agent is imprinted, the GM and the player may choose three [Common Lore](skills.md#common%20lore), [Forbidden Lore](skills.md#forbidden%20lore), [Scholastic Lore](skills.md#scholastic%20lore), or [Trade](skills.md#trade) Skills appropriate for the Acolyte’s cover identity. Until the Agent’s imprinting is wiped clean, the Slate-Agent is considered to possess all chosen Skills, and gains a +10 bonus on related Tests.

While an Acolyte's cover identity is "active" the Acolyte completely and totally believes himself to be that person, and even successful [Interrogation](skills.md#interrogation) will only reveal details about the Acolyte's templated persona. Psychic Powers such as [Mind Scan](telepathy.md#mind%20scan) will still reveal the Acolyte's actual identity and the fact that he's had a different identity templated onto him, however. The Acolyte loses all memories of his time under the active cover identity once the trigger is given to wipe his templating, so it is absolutely essential to fully debrief the Slate-Agent before attempting to prepare a new cover identity.

The triggers used to prepare and wipe a Slate-Agent's persona templates must remain absolutely secret, known only to the controller. Should the triggers become known to anyone else that party could implant their own template onto the Slate-Agent, possibly turning him against his masters or to some other no-doubt nefarious purpose. 
#### **Table: Slate-Agent Advances**
| Advance                                              | Cost | Type   | Prerequisites                      |
| ---------------------------------------------------- | ---- | ------ | ---------------------------------- |
| [Deceive](skills.md#deceive)                         | 100  | Skill  | —                                  |
| [Deceive +10](skills.md#deceive)                     | 100  | Skill  | Deceive                            |
| [Deceive +20](skills.md#deceive)                     | 100  | Skill  | Deceive +10                        |
| [Scrutiny](skills.md#scrutiny)                       | 100  | Skill  | —                                  |
| [Scrutiny +10](skills.md#scrutiny)                   | 100  | Skill  | Scrutiny                           |
| [Scrutiny +20](skills.md#scrutiny)                   | 100  | Skill  | Scrutiny +10                       |
| [Search](skills.md#search)                           | 100  | Skill  | —                                  |
| [Search +10](skills.md#search)                       | 100  | Skill  | Search                             |
| [Search +20](skills.md#search)                       | 100  | Skill  | Search +10                         |
| [Security](skills.md#security)                       | 100  | Skill  | —                                  |
| [Security +10](skills.md#security)                   | 100  | Skill  | Security                           |
| [Jaded](talents.md#jaded)                            | 100  | Talent | WP 30                              |
| [Paranoia](talents.md#paranoia)                      | 100  | Talent | —                                  |
| [Resistance (Psychic Powers)](talents.md#resistance) | 100  | Talent | —                                  |
| [Light Sleeper](talents.md#light%20sleeper)          | 100  | Talent | Per 30                             |
| [Strong Minded](talents.md#strong%20minded)          | 200  | Talent | WP 30, Resistance (Psychic Powers) |
| [Total Recall](talents.md#total%20recall)            | 200  | Talent | Int 30                             |
| [Mental Fortress](talents.md#mental%20fortress)      | 300  | Talent | WP 50, Strong Minded               |
## **Suffering Marshal**

*"You eluded me in Port Suffering. Your trail was faint through the wastelands, but I caught wind of your passing at Misk. You stayed out of sight, but your comrades let slip your destination before I gave them the justice of my boltgun. Finally, I find you here. You have run as far as you can, Vai Los, but you shall elude me no longer. Justice belongs to the God-Emperor, but your death shall be mine."*

— Stavlar Dorian, Suffering Marshal
### **Background**
Iocanthos is a harsh and brutal world, known for its chief export of Ghostfire, a crop used in the manufacture of the combat drug Frenzon, among other pharmacological compounds. Many lawless criminals and scoundrels make use of the vast stretches of untamed wild and the feuding warlords to evade prosecution and cheat the fate they so rightfully deserve. Iocanthos' unique political and social situation does not simply benefit "native" lawbreakers either. With multiple stable warp routes from Scintilla, Fenksworld, and Sepheris Secundus, bustling voidship traffic to and from Iocanthos permits many more skilled and resourceful fugitives across the Golgenna Reach to flee there in the hopes of going to ground from whatever authorities are in pursuit.

Port Suffering, the only developed Imperial city on Iocanthos, features a small Adeptus Arbites precinct house with a modest contingent of Arbitrators who serve a tour of duty for a few years before being rotated out to other postings. This Arbites presence is largely a matter of oversight of Iocanothos' spaceport and its brokering houses, ensuring the all-important Ghostfire export, which makes up the lion's share of Iocanthos' Imperial tithe, goes out without interruption. However, the world's growing reputation as a haven for wanted men, including some of the most irredeemable criminals in Calixis, has spurred the birth of an unorthodox sort of Arbitrator: the so-called Suffering Marshal.

With its sprawling steppes and deep, primeval forests, there is no shortage of wilderness a man who deeply desires to not be found could hide out. Furthermore, numerous warbands of techno-barbarians, vying for supremacy and the right to harvest the Ghostfire, are typically more than happy to hire on any of the more bloodthirsty recidivists, and they rarely give much countenance to a lawman bearing a warrant. It takes a stalwart and resourceful agent to track down this sort of criminal—a man whose dedication to the Imperium and its laws drives him on, alone, for as long as it takes to catch those who have so far eluded justice. This can often take months of arduous tracking and isolation from civilisation, forcing any who would take up this honourable if thankless task to be resourceful, quick thinking, and absolutely loyal to their purpose.

For this reason, only those Arbitrators with specific qualities are chosen for the testing rank of Suffering Marshal—those steadfast in their love of the law, those who have shown an aptitude for the hunt, a cunning mind, and a ready willingness to adapt to any situation or environment. It is these sorts of men and women who are chosen by their superiors to hunt down and mete out justice to those who could treat Iocanthos as a refuge for their wickedness.

Obviously, the Suffering Marshal represents a necessary deviation from typical Adeptus Arbites practices. The world's unique crop and tottering stability created by King Skull make larger military actions questionable—a crack suppression squad from a Scintillan precinct fort would likely find itself slowly ground down by the elements and ruthless marauding warriors eager to claim their gleaming wargear before they could ever hope to find their man. However, unlike most off-worlders, King Skull and many other Vai respect the authority of the Suffering Marshals, viewing them as closer to their own rough-riding warrior ethos and at least tolerating their presence whilst on the hunt for a wanted evildoer.

Granted wide jurisdiction through the whole of the planet, Suffering Marshals are free from the usual bureaucracy and oversight of the traditional Adeptus Arbites as handed down from the Grand Marshal Provost on Holy Terra. This gives a Suffering Marshal a great deal of personal discretion in so far as how he goes about his duties, which on Iocanthos is an absolute necessity of his work. Despite their noble intentions, and the undeniable results of their dogged pursuit of the fugitive, the mere existence of the Suffering Marshals is still quite controversial within the Calixian Arbites. The legalistic traditionalists consider them dangerous, buoyed by such operational leeway and free-thinking that a Suffering Marshal is liable to become a law unto himself, a violent predator hunting for thrills instead of a dispassionate lawgiver. Lord Marshal Goreman has so far opted not to weigh in on either side of the so-called "Iocanothos Question", reticent to risk a doctrinal split between the conservative judges who view the law as a matter of sacred dogma and their more liberal, often younger cohorts that want to get their man at any cost. Judge Porvin, the Suffering Marshals' staunchest advocate, has so far managed to avoid inflaming this controversy by only allowing the most steadfastly loyal and even-keeled Arbitrators to claim the rank.

As it is a Suffering Marshal's duty to put to death those who have already been pronounced guilty by Imperial courts, they are notoriously unconcerned with evidence-gathering procedure and some of the more florid aspects of the Lex Imperialis. Their talents and training lie largely within the scope of tracking their prey, driving them to ground, and overcoming them in violent confrontation. For this reason, Suffering Marshals tend to be straightforward, inelegant individuals, often considered violent and thuggish by already heavy-handed Arbitrators and virtually subhuman by Arbites Adepts. This is also likely the result of the theatre of operation in which they exist—a harsh frontier populated by hard-bitten Imperial citizens, primitive techno-barbarian marauders, and, of course, fugitive malcontents. In such an unforgiving environment and among such no-nonsense people, elegance and pretension are signs of weakness, not authority. In the end, the Suffering Marshal must be a very capable man-at-arms, as his canny quarry is almost never going to gracefully accept judgement when the Marshal inevitably catches up to him.
### **Becoming a Suffering Marshal**
The Suffering Marshal is often a loner, accustomed to working alone or with largely informal networks of informants, and they rarely cross paths with Inquisitorial agents in the field. A true Suffering Marshal is unlikely to be scouted for service in an Inquisitor's retinue—these Arbitrators take their charge very seriously, and few would abandon the hunt for a wanted man for adventure and intrigue with the Inquisition. Their reputation as ruthless and highly effective man-catchers, however, is far from unknown to the Holy Ordos, especially as other Arbites forces around Calixis have begun to accept veteran Suffering Marshals into their ranks.

Some more ambitious Inquisitors have been known to send cadres of their Acolytes to train under a Suffering Marshal, aiding the Marshal with his task and learning some of the unique approaches to tracking and field investigation the Marshals are known for. These agents are jokingly called "Suffering Fools" by the Arbites, but the animosity is largely superficial, and all but the most churlish Marshals tend to be happy to educate the Acolytes in exchange for their assistance. Once they've successfully demonstrated the ability to take down a fugitive the Acolytes are considered to be Suffering Marshals in all but name.

**Required Careers:** Arbitrator, Assassin, Guardsman, or Scum
**Alternate Rank:** Rank 5 or higher (3,000 xp)
**Other Requirements:** [Shadowing](skills.md#shadowing) and [Tracking](skills.md#tracking) Skills. Acolytes must have previously tracked down a dangerous fugitive or aid a Suffering Marshal in doing so.
#### **Table: Suffering Marshal Advances**
| Advance                                                 | Cost | Type   | Prerequisites            |
| ------------------------------------------------------- | ---- | ------ | ------------------------ |
| [Awareness +10](Skills.md#awareness)                    | 100  | Skill  | Awareness                |
| [Awareness +20](Skills.md#awareness)                    | 100  | Skill  | Awareness +10            |
| [Common Lore (Underworld)](Skills.md#common%20lore)     | 100  | Skill  | —                        |
| [Common Lore (Underworld) +10](Skills.md#common%20lore) | 100  | Skill  | Common Lore (Underworld) |
| [Inquiry](Skills.md#inquiry)                            | 100  | Skill  | —                        |
| [Inquiry +10](Skills.md#inquiry)                        | 100  | Skill  | Inquiry                  |
| [Navigation (Surface)](Skills.md#navigation)            | 100  | Skill  | —                        |
| [Navigation (Surface) +10](Skills.md#navigation)        | 100  | Skill  | Navigation (Surface)     |
| [Scrutiny](Skills.md#scrutiny)                          | 100  | Skill  | —                        |
| [Shadowing +10](Skills.md#shadowing)                    | 100  | Skill  | Shadowing                |
| [Survival](Skills.md#survival)                          | 100  | Skill  | —                        |
| [Survival +10](Skills.md#survival)                      | 100  | Skill  | Survival                 |
| [Tracking +10](Skills.md#tracking)                      | 100  | Skill  | Tracking                 |
| [Tracking +20](Skills.md#tracking)                      | 100  | Skill  | Tracking +10             |
| [Wrangling](Skills.md#wrangling)                        | 100  | Skill  | —                        |
| [Wrangling +10](Skills.md#wrangling)                    | 100  | Skill  | Wrangling                |
| [Fearless](Talents.md#fearless)                         | 200  | Talent | —                        |
| [Hatred (Criminals)](Talents.md#hatred)                 | 200  | Talent | —                        |
| [Iron Jaw](Talents.md#iron%20jaw)                       | 200  | Talent | T 40                     |
| [Nerves of Steel](Talents.md#nerves%20of%20steel)       | 200  | Talent | —                        |
| [Pistol Training (Bolt)](Talents.md#pistol%20training)  | 200  | Talent | —                        |
| [Die Hard](Talents.md#die%20hard)                       | 300  | Talent | WP 40                    |
| [Talented (Tracking)](Talents.md#talented)              | 300  | Talent | —                        |
| [True Grit](Talents.md#true%20grit)                     | 300  | Talent | T 40                     |
## **Tyrantine Shadow Agent**

*"Lest the truth devour all."*

— Memento Mori of Inquisitor Cassilda Cognos
### **Background**
The Inquisition, some say, is an empire of secrets. To outsiders, this is certainly the case, for in stern judgement and shrouded in mystery the Holy Ordos sit above them like wrathful gods, little understood and rightly feared. But what is not so widely known by outsiders is that there are many secrets the Inquisition keeps from its own, either because it is expedient to do so, or because they are simply too dangerous even for some members of the Ordos to know. These secrets are often held through invisible webs of patronage, fealty and alliance, but sometimes manifest themselves though shadow empires: whole organisations hidden under the wider umbrella of the Holy Ordos whose nature and concerns remain mysterious even to other Inquisitors and Acolytes.

Inside the Calixian Conclave, there is no greater divider than the Hereticus Tenebrae, more informally known as the Tyrant Star, and the Tyrantine Cabal is one such secretive and insular group striving to uncover the true nature of its menace. The supreme danger of the Star is not known to all even within the Inquisition’s own ranks. Even those who do know something rarely have anything but a piece of the puzzle, and there are many who dismiss the calamitous phenomena of the Tyrant Star as mere coincidence or superstitions. In no small part, the Tyrantine Cabal is responsible for maintaining this ignorance, just as much as it is investigating what the Hereticus Tenebrae represents and how to combat it.

As the years have progressed, this web of secrecy and control has taken on a life almost of its own, and methods and agencies have sprung up to support it and its master’s goals. One such powerful agency is the Tenebrae Collegium—a shadow empire all of its own founded by the cynical genius of the renowned Inquisitor Cassilda Cognos. The Collegium takes the most promising and suitable of Acolytes and transforms them into subtle and lethal instruments of deception, whose true allegiances can remain secret even from the Inquisitors they serve. These Acolytes are perfectly suited to keeping the Tyrantine Cabal's purposes hidden and enacting its will without remorse or apprehension. The existence of the Collegium and its so-called “shadow agents” is a matter officially denied by the Cabal and the source of much secret debate, suspicion, and contentious enmity within the Conclave Calixis as a whole. How far does its reach stretch? How many agents does it have? And what darkness might go undiscovered lurking at the heart of such a strange and hidden power? Few know, but many outside the Cabal have grave misgivings, and it is entirely likely that its most entrenched detractors have fashioned their own secret networks to oppose the Tyrantines' scheming.

It is said Cassilda Cognos once quipped, in a moment of levity, that the Collegium “took outstanding dissemblers and accomplished liars and then began their work”. Certainly, the results of the Collegium’s conditioning do produce agents more than capable of moving through the Imperium in a carefully woven fog of falsity and misdirection. Using tiny gestures, key words and cadences, two agents can communicate vital information in the presence of others who remain none the wiser. Furthermore, using psychic and mental conditioning, a graduate of the Collegium can close his mind to all but the most destructive psychic probing, concealing his deepest secrets around a labyrinth of half truths and falsity to confuse, making them not only extraordinarily proficient spies and agents, but near-impregnable living vaults for the secrets of the Cabal.

The ultimate purpose of these Tyrantine agents is to firstly hold the Cabal above all other masters, to pursue knowledge of the Tyrant Star, and to keep that knowledge safe from all outside the Cabal’s covetous circle. In most cases, these goals coincide with the agent’s duties as Acolytes of the Ordos Calixis. However, where their true loyalties have come into conflict with the Adepta or even immediate superiors outside of the Cabal, this has led to cold and brutal conflict with those the agent would ordinarily call their lords, comrades, or even friends. So far, the Cabal has managed to keep all such “difficulties” from wider knowledge. The time may come, though, when the fate of all is at stake and they will have to act no matter what the cost. Perhaps a civil war will erupt within the Ordos Calixis as a result. This is a nightmare, however, that this secret empire, this order within an order, must bear, for their own fearful secrets are as nothing to the dangers of the Hereticus Tenebrae, and some must be sacrificed lest its truth devour all.
### **Becoming a Tyrantine Shadow Agent**
The path of the Tyrantine Shadow Agent is to be a spy among spies, his true loyalties hidden from his ostensible master. Shadow Agents are always vigilant for any new information about the Tyrant Star they can acquire, and then just as driven to jealously guard it from the prying eyes of those outside the Cabal. By default this demands the Shadow Agent conspire against the trust of his master and his fellow Acolytes, keeping his ultimate objectives hidden from any not deemed worthy of the Cabal's dread knowledge. An Acolyte being revealed as a Shadow Agent would face formal censure from their Inquisitor at best, and could suffer a far worse fate if their master is a more vindictive or covetous soul. For those who maintain their clandestine charge, however, loyal service to their true masters will in time reward them with ascension to the Cabal's inner ranks, and with it, the terrible insight of the threat posed by the Hereticus Tenebrae.

Taking this Alternate Career Rank is not just a matter of passing the xp requirements, it means that you have been singled-out by the Tyrantine Cabal to advance their hideously secretive ambitions. Advancing into this Career makes you a conspirator and subject to the Tyrantine Cabal’s secret orders and goals, and should only be selected if the contrivances of the Tyrant Star figure in to the development of your campaign. As always, consult with your GM and determine whether this Alternate Career Rank is appropriate.

**Required Career:** Any except Soroitas or Tech-Priest
**Alternate Rank:** Rank 5 or higher (3,000 xp)
#### **Table: Tyrantine Shadow Agent Advances**
| Advance                                                             | Cost | Type   | Prerequisites                      |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---- | ------ | ---------------------------------- |
| [Ciphers (Tenebrae Collegium)](skills.md#ciphers)                   | 100  | Skill  | —                                  |
| [Ciphers (Tenebrae Collegium) +10](skills.md#ciphers)               | 100  | Skill  | Ciphers (Tenebrae Collegium)       |
| [Ciphers (Tenebrae Collegium) +20](skills.md#ciphers)               | 100  | Skill  | Ciphers (Tenebrae Collegium) +10   |
| [Deceive](skills.md#deceive)                                        | 100  | Skill  | —                                  |
| [Deceive +10](skills.md#deceive)                                    | 100  | Skill  | Deceive                            |
| [Disguise](skills.md#disguise)                                      | 100  | Skill  | —                                  |
| [Disguise +10](skills.md#disguise)                                  | 100  | Skill  | Disguise                           |
| [Inquiry](skills.md#inquiry)                                        | 100  | Skill  | —                                  |
| [Scholastic Lore (Legend)](skills.md#scholastic%20lore)             | 100  | Skill  | —                                  |
| [Secret Tongue (Tenebrae Collegium)](skills.md#secret%20tongue)     | 100  | Skill  | —                                  |
| [Secret Tongue (Tenebrae Collegium) +10](skills.md#secret%20tongue) | 100  | Skill  | S. Tongue (Tenebrae Collegium)     |
| [Secret Tongue (Tenebrae Collegium) +20](skills.md#secret%20tongue) | 100  | Skill  | S. Tongue (Tenebrae Collegium) +10 |
| **Labyrinth Conditioning**                                          | 100  | Talent | Int 30                             |
| [Mimic](talents.md#mimic)                                           | 100  | Talent | —                                  |
| [Resistance (Psychic Powers)](talents.md#resistance)                | 100  | Talent | —                                  |
| [Unremarkable](talents.md#unremarkable)                             | 100  | Talent | —                                  |
| [Deceive +20](skills.md#deceive)                                    | 200  | Skill  | Deceive +10                        |
| [Disguise +20](skills.md#disguise)                                  | 200  | Skill  | Disguise +10                       |
| [Forbidden Lore (Cults)](skills.md#forbidden%20lore)                | 200  | Skill  | —                                  |
| [Forbidden Lore (Cults) +10](skills.md#forbidden%20lore)            | 200  | Skill  | Forbidden Lore (Cults)             |
| [Forbidden Lore (Inquisition)](skills.md#forbidden%20lore)          | 200  | Skill  | —                                  |
| [Forbidden Lore (Inquisition) +10](skills.md#forbidden%20lore)      | 200  | Skill  | Forbidden Lore (Inquisition)       |
| [Inquiry +10](skills.md#inquiry)                                    | 200  | Skill  | Inquiry                            |
| [Inquiry +20](skills.md#inquiry)                                    | 200  | Skill  | Inquiry +10                        |
| [Scholastic Lore (Legend) +10](skills.md#scholastic%20lore)         | 200  | Skill  | Scholastic Lore (Legend)           |
| [Strong Minded](talents.md#strong%20minded)                         | 200  | Talent | WP 30, Resistance (Psychic Powers) |
| [Mental Fortress](talents.md#mental%20fortress)                     | 300  | Talent | WP 50, Strong Minded               |
#### **Talent: Labyrinth Conditioning**
**Prerequisites:** Intelligence 30

Your mind is a carefully constructed maze of shut-outs and thought-dams designed to thwart the attempts of others who would learn what you wish to keep secret. You gain a +10 bonus on Deceive Tests when being questioned and to resist anyone using the [Intimidate](skills.md#intimidate) Skill on you. You also have a +10 bonus to Willpower to resist [Interrogation](skills.md#interrogation) and mind reading effects such as [Mind Scan](telepathy.md#mind%20scan). In the case of a Psychic Power effect, this bonus stacks with bonuses to resist Psychic Powers from other Talents or Traits.
## **Warden of the Divisio Immoralis**

_"Sleep well tonight. Dream the sweetest of dreams and remember their careless touch. For it will be the last peaceful sleep you will ever have."_

— address to newly inducted Wardens by Marshal Kae Drusil
### **Background**
Something festers in the fabric of the Calixis Sector, something that eats away at is foundations, deceives its people and gnaws at its sanctity. While some in high authority scorn such melodramatic conclusions, there are others who have the foresight and the will to confront this parasite of heresy and rip it out of the body of the population. This is a disease of deviant faith, a worship of false gods, corrupt ideologies and moral bankruptcy, spawning an epidemic of deluded citizens in its wake. It is these citizens who are the malignant flesh of this disease, and it is this flesh that must be cut out.

This is the thesis of Marshal Kae Drusil, an influential and gregarious senior Arbitrator well known on the sector capital of Scintilla. A distant relative of Lord Raephen Verence, himself a member of Lord Sector Marius Hax's privy council, Drusil was able to catch the Lord Sector's ear with her postulation about a common cause of many of the ills in Calixis. To combat this groundswell of recidivists, cultists, and degenerates the Divisio Immoralis was founded, with Hax's explicit blessing and material support. To Drusil and her followers, the Divisio Immoralis is nothing less than the guardians of civilisation and order in Calixis, without which any number of abominable conspiracies and cults would be well poised to topple the foundations of society itself at a moment's notice. However, her organisation is not without critics, many of whom charge that the Divisio effectively functions as another brutal tool of oppression built to placate the paranoia of the Lord Sector and his inner circle. 

The Diviso is the child of Drusil's vision and obsession, and the task force of Adeptus Arbites all look to the greying veteran as their mentor and leader. Drusil believes with total conviction that the rise in cult activity and the numbers of those turning against the Imperial Creed and law in recent years is no accident or coincidence; somewhere behind the scenes a dread purpose pulls the strings to propel the sector towards some terrible dark future. Endorsed by the Lord Sector it might be, but the Divisio has no shortage of opponents, and they are powerful.
  
Some Calixian Arbites see it as a needless eccentricity at best, a product of a burnt out veteran's paranoia given sustenance and succour by political machinations. A few see it as a deliberate overstepping of concerns that rightfully are the sole province of the Adepta. Among them is Lord Marshal Goreman himself, who has sharply bristled at the mere appearance of the Adeptus Arbites, even if it's a fairly small group of them, being subordinated to House Hax's interests. As a result, many shield their most capable and talented officers from transfer to the task force, and Drusil must make do with what she can get: eccentrics, burn-outs, and the occasional promising novice. To bolster their numbers, Drusil has recruited a significant number of enforcers to act as an auxiliary and free up as many Arbitrators as possible for field work—something that has earned her further enmity with her detractors.

That the Divisio Immoralis is comparably small, and its senior is held in barely veiled contempt by the Adeptus Arbites across the sector, does not detract from their remit or their fierce dedication to their appointed task. In the absence of the best-trained staff, Drusil has selected those who share her obsession—personal motivation making up for any lack of skill. Though they may not be the toughest or most promising Arbitrators, most of her wardens fully believe in their commander and are incredibly dedicated to the task that they've taken up. With authorisation to pursue their investigations throughout the sector, the wardens operate alone or in pairs, pursuing their own leads, sifted data, and lines of enquiry. The wardens tirelessly look to establish connections between vile crimes, acts of moral turpitude, and antisocial behaviour that support Drusil's thesis of a great and overarching moral threat that seeks to envelop Calixis, and part and parcel to that, they have dedicated their efforts to combating the rot they see festering around them. They are undoubtedly dedicated and earnest, but as one Inquisitor of the Ordo Hereticus noted, few are mentally or spiritually prepared for the things they will inevitably encounter, lacking the esoteric learnings or carefully prepared defences agents of the Inquisition enjoy, all whilst trying to carry on a similar, if scaled back, function.

In an echo of their mistress, many wardens are strained and brittle men and women. Hard-drinking is a common, if hidden, vice in the Divisio. Trauma-fatigue and psychological burn-outs are not uncommon in those called to serve in this specialised taskforce. It is supposed that these souls have gravitated to Drusil's organisation out of a desperate need to pin the cause of the horrors and depravities they've encountered on a single, malevolent source, a wicked conspiracy that can be halted, if only it were exposed and dragged out into the light.

For its part, the Inquisition has indulged the Divisio's existence, but places little stock in its efficacy, and even less in Marshal Drusil's thesis. A number of puritan Inquisitors, especially within the Ordo Malleus, have opined that the Divisio represents multiple threats to the established order and should be dismantled. Drusil's wardens, they argue, are ill-equipped to investigate threats that may turn out to be daemonic or warp-spawned in nature, and given the breadth of their remit, they will all but certainly cross paths with Chaos cultists and their profane masters. Mentally beleaguered as many are, this could allow the forces of the Ruinous Powers access to the sector's Arbites, a worrying prospect indeed. It also represents a dangerous incursion of Calixian politics and intrigue infecting an arm of the Adepta, and therefore should be quietly broken up before Marius Hax's ambition and paranoia tries to turn the Arbitrators against his rivals.

Notably, a clique of radicals has taken the unusual step of agreeing with their puritan colleagues, albeit for entirely different reasons. They view the Divisio Immoralis as a ripe recruiting ground for driven Acolytes with connections to both the Adeptus Arbites and the sector's elites, with all but the most damaged wardens able to be "polished up" to Inquisitorial standards with some time and effort. If the Divisio's operations were to be "wound down" by Inquisitorial pressure, they'd have no problems impressing the rest of the capable wardens into their retinues. More than a few of these Inquisitors have taken to poaching Drusil's more accomplished wardens already, albeit in a strictly clandestine fashion, allowing the Marshal to believe the newly-minted Acolytes still answer to her and her alone.
### **Becoming a Warden of the Divisio Immoralis**
Somewhat equipped with specialised knowledge and armed with a great concern with subtle and subversive activity, wardens make excellent Acolytes for many Inquisitors, even if they have to be "disabused" of a few of the fallacies the Divisio believes true first. Their powerful, if controversial, remit from the Lord Sector allows them to conduct investigations openly without revealing that the All-Seeing Eye has turned its attentions to the area in question—an invaluable boon for Inquisitors who prefer their henchmen go about their labours in secret.

Rarely, an Arbitrator who is already in the service of an Inquisitor might seek to join Drusil's wardens. This would undoubtedly be done with their Inquisitor's consent and to accomplish a specific purpose—depending on their views on the Divisio in general, this could be to have a servant embedded within it to see what passes through their offices, or simply to be on the lookout for other wardens that could make for capable Acolytes in their own right.

**Required Career:** Arbitrator
**Alternate Rank:** Rank 1 or higher (0 xp)
**Note:** If you take this Alternate Career Rank during character creation, that is to say before you entered Inquisitorial service, you gain 2d5 Insanity Points.
#### **Table: Warden of the Divisio Immoralis Advances**
| Advance                                                                   | Cost |  Type  | Prerequisites                 |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------------- | :--: | :----: | ----------------------------- |
| [Awareness](Skills.md#awareness)                                          | 100  | Skill  | —                             |
| [Common Lore (Adeptus Arbites) +10](Skills.md#common%20lore)              | 100  | Skill  | Common Lore (Adeptus Arbites) |
| [Drive (Ground Vehicle)](Skills.md#drive)                                 | 100  | Skill  | —                             |
| [Drive (Hover Vehicle)](Skills.md#drive)                                  | 100  | Skill  | —                             |
| [Forbidden Lore (Cults)](Skills.md#forbidden%20lore)                      | 100  | Skill  | —                             |
| [Inquiry +10](Skills.md#inquiry)                                          | 100  | Skill  | Inquiry                       |
| [Scrutiny](Skills.md#scrutiny)                                            | 100  | Skill  | —                             |
| [Armour of Contempt](Talents.md#armour%20of%20contempt)                   | 100  | Talent | WP 40                         |
| [Basic Weapon Training (SP)](Talents.md#basic%20weapon%20training)        | 100  | Talent | —                             |
| [Decadence](Talents.md#decadence)                                         | 100  | Talent | T 30                          |
| [Melee Weapon Training (Primitive)](Talents.md#melee%20weapon%20training) | 100  | Talent | —                             |
| [Peer (The Insane)](Talents.md#peer)                                      | 100  | Talent | Fel 30                        |
| [Pistol Training (SP)](Talents.md#pistol%20training)                      | 100  | Talent | —                             |
| [Sound Constitution](Talents.md#sound%20constitution)                     | 100  | Talent | —                             |
| [Resistance (Fear)](Talents.md#resistance)                                | 100  | Talent | —                             |
| [Forbidden Lore (Cults) +10](Skills.md#forbidden%20lore)                  | 200  | Skill  | Forbidden Lore (Cults)        |
| [Forbidden Lore (Heresy)](Skills.md#forbidden%20lore)                     | 200  | Skill  | —                             |
| [Scholastic Lore (Occult)](Skills.md#scholastic%20lore)                   | 200  | Skill  | —                             |
| [Flagellant](Talents.md#flagellant)                                       | 200  | Talent | —                             |
## **Warp Dabbler**

*"She would have been just a petty recidivist and peddler of harm, one of countless souls of no great worth, but then the warp found her, and she became a true monster. However, as she is a monster loyal to me, you and I are now in conflict."*

— Radical Inquisitor Soldevan to Judge Hiram Fulk of the Adeptus Arbites
##### **Background**
Warp Dabblers, sometimes referred to as warplocks and petty sorcerers, are individuals tampering—often quite nesciently—with the malignant arts of the warp sorcery. Whether cultists, noncompliants, recidivists, or amoral academics, these individuals have had contact with forbidden knowledge and have decided to further explore the possibilities it can offer. These are not true sorcerers or savants of the forbidden, but instead are dark-hearted warriors, soiled enforcers, spiteful adepts, and twisted killers who have acquired a degree of warp lore and have made the perilous decision to put it into use for their own gain. Although they may never achieve the terrible heights of occult power and knowledge that the true masters of sorcery can, a little knowledge is a dangerous thing—especially in the hands of often-desperate individuals on the fringes of society.

Warp Dabblers may have walked almost any path before they begin their dalliance with warp craft. In the case of recidivists and other minor heretics, they may be cultists, criminals, smugglers, or even gang bosses. Others could, at least nominally, be on the straight and narrow, including lesser academics, occultists, and even noble scions. The intelligence and strength of will to study the forbidden is not something that all can do, but should one with the potential be presented with tantalisingly proscribed power, he will often seize it and put it to imaginative (and horrible) use.

Blessedly, the sorts of fell knowledge that could start one down the path of the Warp Dabbler are not easy to obtain. The Imperium is, in general, an insular and ignorant society, and this is just as much by design as it is by cultural norms. The Ecclesiarchy constantly preaches rhetoric designed to inspire dogmatic obedience and abject abhorrence of the heretical and the unknown in equal measure, while the Imperial Inquisition considers censoring and limiting the spread of information considered dangerous or corrupting an absolutely vital task. To the average Imperial citizen, a formal education in academic subjects is a luxury, daemons are distant horrors portrayed in morality plays, and the warp is more of an abstraction of antipathetic feelings than a very real place of unadulterated power and anarchy.

In this social climate, it is onerous to say the least to obtain texts or information about daemonology, the occult, and the immaterium, but it is by no means impossible either. There are few things more consistent in human nature than the desire to possess that which is proscribed or
unobtainable. In the darkest corners of Imperial society—and often its loftiest heights too—banned texts, forbidden tomes, and other instructions in warp craft can be bought, traded, and stolen by someone with the right connections or resources. Tragically, some even find their way into the hands of completely unwitting souls who, in a moment of weakness, turn away from the Ecclesiarchy's blessed ignorance and furtively turn the pages of madness and damnation.

It is an unfortunate irony that the Imperium’s tireless efforts to suppress perilous malefic knowledge mean those who do manage to obtain such information often have little real understanding of just how dangerous it can be. To them, the rituals and incantations are just another tool to obtain their goals, or worse, an amusing frivolity with the supernatural bearing no great significance at all. Only when it is far, far too late, and the leering eyes and grinning mouths of thirsting gods are upon him, does the average Warp Dabbler realise how profoundly his actions have doomed him.

This is not to say, however, that Warp Dabblers are not formidable foes. On the contrary, those who survive long enough, avoiding detection by the Imperial authorities and destruction or insanity from the dread tomes they ply, often possess a combination of low cunning, resourcefulness, and ruthless connivance which makes them quite competent adversaries. In addition, the warp-fueled powers and daemonic allies they can draw on makes them even more dangerous, especially when cornered or desperate. Warp Dabbling crime bosses may take down their rivals with horrors summoned from the warp, while assassins may use sorcery to pass unseen and so eliminate the most heavily guarded of targets with ease. Cultists may attract their followers with forbidden pleasures and dark rewards, while protecting their secrecy with hexes and malefic curses. Perhaps unsurprisingly, the Warp Dabbler is thus a common quarry for servants of the Inquisition, a burgeoning moral threat who grows in power and danger every day he's left to further hone his hideous craft.

For Inquisitors of a more radical persuasion, cornering a Warp Dabbler who isn't already "too far gone" could be a profitable prospect. A Warp Dabbling Acolyte can call on his knowledge of the dark arts to defeat his opponents, gain a better understanding of their motives and operations, or even bend the powers of the warp against its own vile denizens when they manifest in the materium. When facing the prospect of execution, or worse, few Warp Dabblers would reject a radical Inquisitor's sanction to make something worthwhile of their lives, and with it, perhaps earn redemption in the eyes of the God-Emperor.
### **Becoming a Warp Dabbler**
An Acolyte requires both motive and opportunity to become a Warp Dabbler. At a minimum, the Acolyte must have a source from which he could acquire profane knowledge of the warp, along with the necessary moral flexibility to heedlessly study such subjects and their dire portents. The Acolyte’s Inquisitor might be a source of such possibility, as could contact with warp cults or forbidden tomes, perhaps made during the course of an investigation. Once the Acolyte chooses to dabble in the proscribed, he must spend an amount of time studying or being tutored—usually taking a few months, although a fast reader could conceivably do it quicker—during which time the Acolyte gains 2d10 Corruption Points.

**Required Career:** Any except Soroitas or Tech-Priest
**Alternate Rank:** Rank 6 or higher (6,000 xp)
**Other Requirements:**  [Forbidden Lore (Warp)](skills.md#forbidden%20lore), [Forbidden Lore (Daemonology)](skills.md#forbidden%20lore), or [Scholastic Lore (Occult)](skills.md#scholastic%20lore) Skills
#### **Table: Warp Dabbler Advances**
| Advance                                                        | Cost | Type   | Prerequisites                                                          |
| -------------------------------------------------------------- | ---- | ------ | ---------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [Ciphers (Occult)](skills.md#ciphers)                          | 100  | Skill  | —                                                                      |
| [Forbidden Lore (Warp)](skills.md#forbidden%20lore)            | 100  | Skill  | —                                                                      |
| [Forbidden Lore (Daemonology)](skills.md#forbidden%20lore)     | 100  | Skill  | —                                                                      |
| [Invocation](skills.md#invocation)                             | 100  | Skill  | —                                                                      |
| [Invocation +10](skills.md#invocation)                         | 100  | Skill  | Invocation                                                             |
| [Scholastic Lore (Occult)](skills.md#scholastic%20lore)        | 100  | Skill  | —                                                                      |
| [Decadence](talents.md#decadence)                              | 100  | Talent | Toughness 30                                                           |
| [Forbidden Lore (Daemonology) +10](skills.md#forbidden%20lore) | 200  | Skill  | Forbidden Lore (Daemonology)                                           |
| [Forbidden Lore (Warp) +10](skills.md#forbidden%20lore)        | 200  | Skill  | Forbidden Lore (Warp)                                                  |
| [Psyniscience](skills.md#psyniscience)                         | 200  | Skill  | —                                                                      |
| [Scholastic Lore (Occult) +10](skills.md#scholastic%20lore)    | 200  | Skill  | Scholastic Lore (Occult)                                               |
| [Minor Arcana](sorcery.md#minor%20arcana)                      | 200  | Talent | Sorcerer                                                               |
| [Fuelled by Flesh](talents.md#fuelled%20by%20flesh)            | 200  | Talent | Sorcerer                                                               |
| [Sorcerer](sorcery.md#sorcerer)                                | 200  | Talent | Int 35, WP 35, F. Lore (Daemonology or Warp) +10, S. Lore (Occult) +10 |
| [Major Arcana](sorcery.md#major%20arcana)                      | 300  | Talent | WP 45, Sorcerer                                                        |
| [Dark Soul](talents.md#dark%20soul)                            | 400  | Talent | —                                                                      |
| [Favoured by the Warp](talents.md#favoured%20by%20the%20warp)  | 400  | Talent | WP 35                                                                  |
