# Chapter X: The Inquisition

*"Innocence proves nothing."*

— Inscription above the gates of the Calixian Conclave spire.

Acolytes of the Inquisition work for a secretive and wide-ranging organisation, which is charged with a vital task. The Inquisition guards the soul of mankind, fending off Daemonic corruption, witchery and mutation lest humanity succumb to their blandishments and fall into darkness. The Inquisition is by necessity a clandestine and complicated organisation. Mystery and fear are essential tools in its mission and Acolytes soon learn to use them to their advantage. The common man fears the agents of the Inquisition as harbingers of woe who steal away loved ones or uncover horrific cults. Even planetary governors, Imperial nobles and military leaders blanch at the mention of an Inquisitor's presence, as well they might, for all hide some guilty secret.

*"Come in acid-storm they did, with the rain and the lightning licking the spireport as they landed. They cut the power to the big estate-habs. Whole half the hive went dark with it, and by the time they got it running again and stopped the riots and scraped up the dead, it were too late. They never found no one left up there. Just cold and empty palaces, not a lick of scrap left in the place. Five noble houses gone and they never did say why neither. I venture I could make a guess or two though—the things you see when you're cleaning viewports…"* 

— Phormbis, Hive Tranch Windowjack.

A Overview *"Mutants are bad, and what's worse is what comes in their wake. Listen up, stubberscum, if you spy something strange with your platoon mates, report it! Otherwise the Inquisition will be through here like the worst dose of gutf lush you ever swallowed, giving each and every one of you a Commissar's Welcome—the last and loudest noise you'll ever hear!"* 

— Arms-Sergeant Heikon Thrass, Mortressen 103rd.

*"'Quisitors? Hush now, we don't even speak of 'em. You names 'em, you call 'em an' that's the last thing yer want. They'll 'ave an excruciater up yer fundament afore yer can scream 'Throne blind me!'"* 

*—* Agri-hand Jaspus Sawney.

# **ORGANISATION**

*"Understanding is overrated."*

*—* Stormtrooper Sergeant Havlock.

A As with the other Adepta, the Inquistion is a confusing tangle of duty and power, secrecy and division. The highly autonomous and covert nature of most Inquisitors only serves to exacerbate the situation. There are wheels within wheels, and many hidden depths to the knowledge and power of the Inquisition. Many Acolytes are ignorant of all but the most fundamental structure of their organisation. Others still know nothing at all of the monolithic, byzantine order.

# **OVERVIEW**

Broadly speaking, the Inquisition is a feudal organism. At its base are a great number of thralls toiling to support a complex edifice of influence and duty. At its very peak rests the master of mankind, the God-Emperor, in whose name all acts are justified. In between sit all manner of offices, fiefdoms, ranks and privileges, all of which an aspiring Acolyte may one day hope to claim.

At the very lowest level, a person may work for the Inquisition unknowingly. These minions may have some inkling that they are involved with a secretive organisation but believe it to be mundane in nature, such as a crime syndicate, religious order or governmental murder squad (on some planets, of course, these are one and the same). These folk are not considered to be Acolytes of the Inquisition merely pawns, employees and agents to be moved upon the field of operations and dropped or sacrificed at will. In their way, they may play an important role but they will never know the truth of their deeds.

An Acolyte is a different creature altogether. The Acolyte is aware that he serves the Inquisition, and will have spoken to his master at least once in his career. He is thought of as a seed of potential that may one day stand to become a fully fledged Inquisitor. Though he starts at an admittedly lowly level, as disposable as any unwitting agent, he has a certain something that sets him apart. This may be an incredible skill or talent, a prophesied destiny, the luck to be in the right place at the right time, or simply something about him that appeals to the Inquisitor in some way.

As he progresses in his service, gaining skill, experience and success to his name, an Acolyte becomes more valuable to his master. Those considered to have proven themselves will be given more and more important tasks and will gain greater knowledge. These trusted Acolytes may come to have cadres of Acolytes or unwitting agents working for them, and may even be asked to seek out potential recruits for their Inquisitor to assess. With time, their master may even deem them ready to begin the long and arduous task of training to become an Inquisitor themselves.

Though far fewer in number than Acolytes or unwitting minions, Inquisitors very firmly form the heart and soul of the Inquisition. These independent and wildly varying individuals drive the organisation forward, seeking out all manner of foulness and ensuring its destruction. There are countless types of Inquisitor, with endless levels of power. Each controls an intricate and subtle web of agents, Acolytes, resources, influences and contacts. Functioning very much as a microcosm of the Inquisition itself, each of these networks is capable of operating independently if need be—though what manner of necessity would require such isolation is a troubling thought indeed.

Whilst the chain of command amongst the ranks of the Inquisitors is obscure at best, the ultimate expression of the group's tremendous powers is the Inquisitorial Representative to the High Lords of Terra. The Representative's role is to observe the workings of the Imperium and inform the High Lords of dire threats uncovered by the Inquisition. The means by which an Inquisitor is appointed as the Representative are very obscure and the Representative changes constantly, with the same Inquisitor rarely serving on the High Lords' Council twice. He is not the leader of the Inquisition, because no one man could ever claim leadership over the wilful and scattered ranks of its Inquisitors. He is at best an advisor who can whisper in the ears of the High Lords and, through them, the Emperor Himself. Beyond this basic structure, the Inquisition is further organised into loose groups, roles and affiliations. Each of these serves to further muddy the treacherous waters of the organisation. These ordos, conclaves and factions are as diverse as those who make up their ranks. Whether it was these structures that have shaped the Inquisitors into the varied force that they are, or vice versa, is a matter of great debate.

An Inquisitor has the power to declare an individual, or sometimes an organisation or wholeplanet, as "Excommunicate Traitoris". This declaration excommunicates the accused from the human race and is an indication to other Inquisitors and Adepta that the excommunicate party should be hunted down and killed for the good of the Imperium. Inquisitorial gatherings are often the venue for declaring excommunications and, in extreme circumstances, even a fellow Inquisitor can be labelled Excommunicate Traitoris. Excommunication is never done lightly but is a principal weapon of the Inquisition and one of the ways its authority can be used to protect the Imperium.

**THE ORDOS OF THE INQUISITION**

The great ordos are the principal means by which the Inquisition organises itself, and most Inquisitors belong to one of them. The ordos are groups given over to rooting out a particular threat against mankind. With millennia of specialisation, each has become a sharply honed weapon with which to excise those that would seek to move against mankind.

# **Ordo Hereticus**

The Ordo Hereticus is the largest of the ordos and its Inquisitors watch for enemies among the Imperium's own population. Members of the Ordo Hereticus are sometimes known as "Witch Hunters" because of the priority they place on apprehending psykers. Mutants, rebels and heretics are also targeted by the Ordo Hereticus. The Ordo has no qualms at all about acting against threats in the other Adepta and many a renegade Ministorum cardinal or corrupt Tech-Priest has met his end at the hands of a Witch Hunter.

The Ordo Hereticus often makes use of Imperial forces, like the Imperial Guard or Adeptus Arbites, to aid in the fulfilment of its duties. However, armed forces led by a Witch Hunter Inquisitor frequently include Sisters of Battle. Centuries ago, following the Age of Apostasy, the newly reformed Adepta Sororitas and the Ordo Hereticus forged an agreement to assist one another in fighting the Emperor's enemies. This agreement, made at the Convocation of Nephilim, is still shrouded in mystery and it is suggested among some Inquisitors that the Sisters of Battle and the Ordo Hereticus are following some secret plan that only the canonesses of the Sororitas and a few Inquisitor Lords fully understand. Whether this is true or not, a Witch Hunter can expect to find common purpose with the Sisters of Battle, and the two organisations work together extensively.

Inquisitors of the Ordo Hereticus are commonly figures of incredibly strong will. Some are fitted with special psychic hoods designed to nullify hostile witcheries targeting their mind or person. Others prefer to trust in the Emperor, uttering litanies of protection and hate as they move against rogue psykers. As with the other ordos of the Inquisition, the Witch Hunters are happy to use individuals with psychic powers, provided they have been properly sanctioned. Perhaps surprisingly, there are many Inquisitors amongst the Ordo Hereticus who are capable of using psychic disciplines themselves. Woe betide the witch who is hunted by one such individual, for these Inquisitors are notorious in their zeal. Perhaps it is because they are fully aware of the terrible dangers that lurk within the warp, or perhaps it is a result of their training—whatever the case, these psychic Witch Hunters will stop at nothing to destroy the corrupt and tainted.

Some Inquisitors within the Ordo Hereticus specialise in the identification and eradication of mutants. They may have numerous cells of Acolytes at their disposal, which range from hive-toughened flamer squads, trained to purge large infected areas, to precision assassination cells, which remove and replace key political figures that have succumbed to the lure of the Dark gods. In most cases, such Inquisitors will be less concerned with the mutants themselves (as they are a relatively simple matter to deal with) and more with the causes of mutation. An outbreak of mutation may herald a terrible event, point to an upswing in cult activity or simply be the inexplicable whim of the Ruinous Powers. Whatever the cause, the Ordo Hereticus will require an investigation and purge. This can sometimes cause the Ordo to be involved in high-profile events, such as the removal of a head of state, the cleaning up of corrupted pollutants or even outright war.

Occasionally the Ordo will find itself pitted against an individual being or phenomenon which presents a significant threat. This might be as varied as a psyker of unprecedented power, a mutant with terrifying abilities or even a governor unwilling to carry out necessary pogroms. In such cases, the Ordo Hereticus will excommunicate the offending person from the human race and then hunt them down with frightening ruthlessness. The ordos will call upon any allies they feel necessary, from the Sisters of Battle, to members of other Adepta or servants of another ordo. They are willing to do whatever is needed to get at the excommunicated party, even if it should mean sending the Imperial Guard against the Imperium's own people. Better to end a thousand innocent lives than to suffer the spread of corruption.

Perhaps more so than other arms of the Inquisition, the Ordo Hereticus is concerned with the big picture. Their duty tasks them with tending to a vast flock, and as such, individuals within that mass are seldom of importance. The Imperium is comprised of billions of souls, each of which is a potential psyker, mutant or rebel. The Ordo Hereticus fights on countless fronts, endlessly, with no warning of where fresh heresy may arise. Whilst cells of Acolytes or particular Inquisitors may have the luxury of dealing only with the local situation, the scholars and masters of the Ordos look upon events with a distanced eye, thinking in terms of systems and sectors rather than planets or countries. To some observers, this impersonal attitude is vile, but to members of the Ordo Hereticus it is necessary to protect mankind from itself.

# **The Sisters of Battle**

The Sisters of Battle are the Chamber Militant of the Ordo Hereticus and are more properly known as the Orders Militant of the Adepta Sororitas. Their duties include performing purity sweeps through Imperial organisations, persecuting apostate clerics, guarding some of the most dangerous of the Ordo's prisoners and acting as wardens on the infamous Black Ships. These and a thousand other duties are entrusted to these most holy servants of the Emperor. The Adepta Sororitas is also closely allied with the Ecclesiarchy and perform beneficial works throughout the Imperium. This includes the Orders Hospitaller, which provides medicae to almost all arms of the Imperial military, and the Orders Famulous, which forms a network of advisors and diplomats to insure that the Imperium's noble households work towards the ultimate good of Mankind. Lastly there is the Sisters of the Orders Dialogous who are scholars and experts in the translation of texts both human and xenos, holy and blasphemous. The Sisters of Battle are a powerful fighting force in their own right, defending religious sites, guarding Ecclesiarchy adepts, watching over the safety of the huge pilgrim convoys criss-crossing the Imperium and fighting Imperial campaigns of a religious significance.

# **Ordo Malleus**

The Ordo Malleus is the smallest and closest-knit of the ordos, and its Inquisitors are among the most knowledgeable, incorruptible and dangerous men and women in the galaxy. This is because the Ordo Malleus fights perhaps the most dangerous opponent that mankind can face—the Daemon. Daemons are creatures of the warp, servants of the foul powers that dwell there, and they are things of utter evil and madness whose very presence can only lead to corruption and death. The Ordo Malleus—the Daemonhunters—have the responsibility of battling these otherworldly horrors, risking their very souls to fight what might be humanity's ultimate battle against the madness and malevolence of the warp.

The fight against the Daemon requires the Ordo Malleus to share precious information among its Inquisitors and work together. Alone amongst the ordos, the Daemonhunters have a distinct home base—the Inquisitorial facilities on the moons of Saturn. This is where the Ordo's great libraries of Daemonic lore are kept, its volumes carefully warded against the malevolent nature of the information they contain. The Ordo Malleus fleet is docked among Saturn's rings along with its principal fortress, where new Inquisitors are trained and old ones impart the knowledge painfully acquired over centuries of facing the direst and most corruptive of threats.

Ordo Malleus Daemonhunters tend to be very martially minded. They trust only themselves to execute a Daemon's destruction and so go to battle armed with sacred weapons and armored with potent psychic wards. It is not unknown for Malleus Inquisitors to command whole armies from the front, charging into combat against Daemonic foes and inspiring the men around them to do battle with the most horrible of enemies. For this reason many Daemonhunters consider it their duty to be strong in both mind and body, great warriors with the finest battlegear as well as the strongest will. Some Ordo Malleus Inquisitors are investigators rather than fighters, hunting down Daemonic lore and searching for the signs of a Daemon's presence, but when it comes to destroying this most heinous of foes, the Daemonhunters, with their sacred power hammers and blessed armor, come to the fore.

The Ordo Malleus needs the most elite and dedicated Chamber Militant to combat Daemons, and it has them:

the Space Marines of the Grey Knights Chapter. The Grey Knights are trained specifically to fight Daemons and they are perhaps the only force in the Imperium who can do so without eventually losing their souls. Every Grey Knight has some psychic ability, which is trained and honed until they can shield their minds against Daemonic corruption. Their power armor is imbued with potent anti-Daemonic wards and their distinctive Nemesis force weapons are designed to focus their psychic strength into formidable destructive power. The Grey Knights are based at their fortress-monastery on Saturn's moon of Titan but the majority of them are elsewhere in the galaxy at any given time, forming the retinues of Ordo Malleus Inquisitors or fighting in the cutting edge of an army led by a Daemonhunter. The Grey Knights, like most chapters, have their own fleet and support staff but, unlike most, they do not act completely independently—they are commanded by the Ordo Malleus, who alone know how to use such a potent weapon as the Grey Knights to maximum effect. In all the history of the chapter, a Grey Knight has never become corrupted by the forces of the warp and the tombvaults of Titan are the resting places of some of the greatest heroes the Imperium has ever known.

In spite of their skill and dedication, the Inquisitors of the Ordo Malleus are still ultimately mortal. One of the biggest dangers they face is the possibility of one of their own becoming corrupted and ending up in thrall to the very powers they once sought to destroy. Contact with Daemons provides a constant threat of corruption, especially given that the Ordo Malleus collects knowledge about Daemons to help find and destroy them. Such is the potency of the Daemon that even knowledge of them can be dangerous. The Ordo Malleus polices its ranks thoroughly for any sign that its members may be susceptible to corruption or even already in league (knowingly or not) with the Dark gods. Nevertheless, the Ordo Malleus must often hunt down one of its own before all their knowledge of Daemonic lore is used to bring forth the horrors of the warp instead of to destroy them.

One Radical concept is the idea that the warp is a source of immense power that, if it could be harnessed, could usher forth a golden age for the human race. Some Radicals therefore search for ways in which Daemons can be controlled, binding them with complex forbidden rituals or entering into bargains with them in the belief that an Inquisitor's willpower and knowledge will allow him to cheat the damnation that is sure to follow. Some Inquisitors research the warp-spawned sorcery that disciples of the Dark gods have in turn learned from Daemons, hoping to use the warp's own magic against the Emperor's foes. Still other Radicals seek to employ Daemonic weapons or other items of power, believing that it is the will of the user, and not the Daemons bound into the items themselves, that determine whether they are used for good or ill. For every Radical purged from the ranks of the Ordo Malleus, another dares to read a forbidden tome instead of burning it, or takes up a mighty Daemon weapon instead of destroying it. It is a cruel irony that while knowledge is essential for the Ordo Malleus to fight the Daemon, that same knowledge can become the Dark gods' most dangerous weapon of all.

2"Daemons cannot normally exist outside the warp. They must be brought through either by cultists enacting ancient rituals to the Dark gods or by possessing unguarded psykers. Daemons are cunning and deceitful and many humans serve them willingly at first, foolishly believing their lies of power. However, once a Daemon is called into realspace it can do untold damage. A Daemon is not just a destructive force, although I have known of some that can lay waste to whole cities and even worlds. Their real danger lies in their corruptive powers. Even the strong-minded can be driven mad by a Daemon's powers, becoming no more than a slave to the Daemon's whims. Cultists may act in helping it call forth more of its kind from the warp, or even attempt to build an empire from among the Imperium's unguarded worlds. The result is always damnation—the worst excesses of the Ordo Malleus are as nothing compared to the eternal woe that awaits all the servants of the Dark gods. The servants of the Daemon, as well as the Daemon itself, are justifiable targets for our wrath."

# **Ordo Xenos**

The Inquisitors of the Ordo Xenos accept responsibility for protecting humanity from the predations of aliens. To most of the Imperium, the alien is an abomination, a heathen who desires humanity's destruction and who must be slain for the good of mankind. Most Inquisitors share this view and pursue the alien to the point of extinction if they can.

Some aliens are a threat to the Imperium in a military sense, invading large swathes of Imperial space, ransacking planets and killing or enslaving the inhabitants. The green-skinned rampaging Orks and voracious Tyranids are chief among these large-scale threats. The Imperial Guard and Imperial Navy are the main weapons against these xenos hordes, and the Imperium's war zones are constantly ablaze with battles against them. The Ordo Xenos is instrumental in leading the Imperium's military forces against major xenos invasions, gathering intelligence and deploying troops. An Inquisitor in this position makes decisions that can cost millions of lives and must be prepared to go further than even the most hard-hearted Imperial Guard general or Navy admiral in stemming the alien tide. Some of the Ordo Xenos' greatest Inquisitors, such as the legendary Inquisitor Kryptmann, have sacrificed entire worlds to deny them to alien forces.

Other aliens are far more subtle. These in a way are more dangerous, because the Imperium's armed forces cannot be brought to bear against such a foe. Some aliens can control humans or otherwise hide their tracks, living among human communities and corrupting them. Alienled cults can persist for centuries, sometimes attaining great power and prestige for their members, taking advantage of the superstitious and repressive nature of many Imperial worlds to enslave hundreds of thousands of people. Inquisitors of the Ordo Xenos search for tell-tale signs of alien infiltration, often gathering groups of nearby Inquisitors to them before they move to destroy it wherever it is found. Such Inquisitors are hard-nosed investigators who must be prepared to face inhuman enemies and show no mercy to those in thrall to the alien.

A few alien threats are dormant, waiting to emerge. Many examples of fallen alien civilisations are dotted around the galaxy on dead and quarantined worlds, and not all the aliens there are completely extinct. It only takes an ill-advised mining colony or Explorator mission to awaken something ancient and slumbering. To prevent this, many Ordo Xenos Inquisitors actively investigate the relics of alien civilisations, hunting for potential dangers among cyclopean alien cities and forgotten tomb-worlds. These Inquisitors frequently work alone and, needless to say, one of the dangers they face is awakening the very alien horrors they seek to keep dormant.

While many Ordo Xenos Inquisitors believe that all aliens must be killed, this is not true for all of them. Some believe that if an alien species does not wish the Imperium harm and does not move against Imperial interests then cooperating with them is not out of the question. Some aliens possess technology that far surpasses the Imperium's own, such as the elegant digital weapons made by the ape-like Jokaero, and trading for such technology may be to the Imperium's benefit. Furthermore, the Imperium shares common enemies with some species, and alliances between Imperial and alien forces are sometimes a necessity. Some Ordo Xenos Inquisitors actively foster these alliances, believing that their superior knowledge of alien methods and mindsets negates the risks of collaborating with xenos. These beliefs are considered Radical among the Ordo Xenos and their adherents can be shunned or even hunted down by their brother Inquisitors. Nevertheless, the contact an Ordo Xenos Inquisitor has with alien species can impart a belief that some of them can be used, not just destroyed, by the Imperium.

# **Con claves**

As well as having the capacity to command the Imperium's military forces, the Ordo Xenos also have access to the Ordo's Chamber Militant—the Deathwatch Space Marines. The Deathwatch is an unusual Space Marine Chapter that draws its members from the other Chapters of the Adeptus Astartes, with Marines serving in the Deathwatch for a set period of time before returning to their original Chapters. Most Space Marine Chapters are a part of this ancient agreement, sending Space Marines with the most appropriate skills to be trained and equipped for a term of service as specialised alien hunters under the command of the Ordo Xenos. A squad of Deathwatch Space Marines is invaluable when an Inquisitor comes to exterminate an alien infestation, investigate a potentially deadly alien world or eliminate a particularly loathsome xenos creature. Some Deathwatch squads are placed at the disposal of a conclave, but most of them are appointed to the retinue of a particular Inquisitor until his mission is complete.

**Other Ordos**

Whilst the three great ordos are perhaps the best known and established, there are a number of other smaller ordos charged with guardianship of particular aspects of the Imperium. Some police the ranks of assassin death cults, whilst others tend the workings of the Black Ships. Rumours persist of Inquisition ordos which watch the officers of the Imperial Guard and Navy, and others whose sole task is to purge the ranks of the Inquisition itself. Whilst in theory these smaller ordos are of equal rank and power to Ordo Hereticus, Ordo Xeno and Ordo Malleus, in practice they seldom control as many resources as these great organisations.

# **CONCLAVES**

Aside from their membership of an Ordo, many Inquisitors also serve in a regional grouping generally known as a conclave. These federations of Inquisitors watch over a particular area of Imperial space, although the whole Imperium is by no means covered by conclaves and endless tracts of it are devoid of a permanent Inquisitorial presence.

Conclaves can include Inquisitors from all manner of ordos as well as those who belong to no other organisations. The largest conclaves, those which watch over particularly populous or dangerous areas of the Imperium, have enormous resources available for the use of their dozens of Inquisitors, from spaceships to private armies. The smallest might number only three or four Inquisitors and a handful of trusted agents.

# **The Calixian Conclave**

As with many others throughout the Imperium, the Calixian Conclave has a long and labyrinthine history. This ancient establishment has gathered many resources over the years, ranging from small safe houses on distant planets to mighty fortresses like the Tricorn officio on Scintilla. Troops, secret libraries, ancient pacts and even entire merchant companies are in the control of the conclave—though many would be hard pressed to find any evidence of such a thing. There are also numerous hidden heresies and forbidden episodes buried within the annals of the conclave.

The symbol of the Calixian Conclave is a golden chalice. At Inquisitorial gatherings, an ornate version of this chalice is often displayed upon a table, plinth or other prominent position. Tradition holds that it should be filled only half-way with clear liquid. The mythology of the conclave holds that this is either a draught from the well of knowledge or the waters of forgetfulness. The original charter in which this detail was recorded has been lost and copies of the tattered manuscripts seem to contradict one another. Darker whispers from the more Radical elements of the conclave whisper that the symbolic cup is in fact the Chalice of Corruption, a warning to those who would taste the mysteries locked within the Calixis Sector's apocalyptic fate.

# The Black Ships

A major duty of the Inquisition, alongside the primarily investigative role of the various ordos, is running the Black Ships. These craft, crewed and commanded in conjunction with the Adeptus Astra Telepathica, transport psykers from all over the Imperium to Terra. These psykers are given up by Imperial worlds as part of their tithe, and indeed surrendering psykers to the Inquisition is one of the most important rules of Imperial law. The skill of the Inquisition at finding the truth about a planet'<sup>s</sup> psyker population and the power of intimidation that the Inquisitorial Seal brings with it means that the Black Ships could not function effectively without the Inquisition's help.

Some of the psykers transported to Terra are strong enough to be trained as Imperial psykers or astropaths. The rest are never seen again and as far as most people see it, what happens to them is a secret known only to a few Lord Inquisitors and senior Adepts of the Telepathica. The crews of the Black Ships come from both the Telepathica and the Inquisition. Adepts of the Telepathica test the psykers being transported, selecting those who are strong enough to shield themselves from possession by warp entities to begin their training. The Inquisition's role is to scrutinise the tithe gathered from each world to make sure that there is no shortfall in the number of psykers given up, monitor the psykers being transported in case they pose a threat while in transit and (though not their official duty) pick the best psykers for training and use by the Inquisition itself. Indeed, many Acolytes with psychic powers began their careers as unwilling passengers on a Black Ship, where 

their talents were first recognised. The Black Ships themselves are dark places of despair, for they are little more than spacefaring high-security prisons and many of the psykers being transported know full well that they will meet a grim fate at their journey's end.

# **Cabals**

Any conclave has the power to commission a special cabal to investigate a particular matter, though they are rare. Sometimes the line between cabal and conclave are none too clear, particularly in areas where there are few Inquisitors. Cabals are, in practice, autonomous bodies, specialist taskforces charged with the prosecution of a particular sensitive concern. Cabals are despised by many, who see them as secret societies or unnnecesary inner factions within a conclave. However, they have been shown to be a highly effective tool: by combining and focusing the activities of varied Inquisitors on a particular scheme, cabals have often achieved noteworthy successes.

The Tyrantine Cabal of Inquisitors within the Calixis Sector is an example of a large and comparatively close-knit cabal. The ominous threat of the much prophesied Tyrant Star—a strange apparition that heralds great disaster—has forced Inquisitors to band together. Appearing as it does, seemingly at random throughout the sector, the Tyrantines have so far been unable to track or predict its wax and wane. Whenever events begin to herald the arrival of the Tyrant Star—mass riots, dreams of a black wreathed sun, natural disasters, unprecedented psychic phenomena and so on—nearby Inquisitors and Acolytes race to observe the appearance. The data they record is shared amongst the other members of the cabal and is much debated upon.

# **FACTIONS**

A further division within the Inquisition is the personal philosophy adopted by each Inquisitor and, to some extent, their Acolytes. The members of the Inquisition are men and women of strong character and convictions, and each has a different view of how the Imperium should best be saved from the many threats that beset it (including the Inquistion itself ). There are as many beliefs as there are stars in the sky but over the centuries Inquisitors have found common cause and banded together into factions. Some factions are ancient and can claim many powerful Inquisitors among their ranks, while others are little more than cells of two or three like-minded Inquisitors.

Many Inquisitors describe a broad split in their ranks between Puritans and Radicals. Puritans more or less believe the Imperial Truth as it is handed down to the Imperium's citizens—the Emperor is a god, the dark forces of the warp are unutterably evil, and mutants, heretics and witches must not be tolerated. Furthermore they tend to believe in maintaining the status quo of the Imperium, since it is the instrument of the Emperor's will. Puritans are mostly young and full of fire, eager to prove themselves to their peers and their Emperor by hunting down mankind's traditional foes and preserving the stability of the Imperium. Many Acolytes also share this zeal, particularly as they are often at the sharp end of any engagement with cultists, mutants and other such scum. Even if he does not entirely agree with this view of the Imperium, an Inquisitor will often encourage Puritan ideals within his servants, knowing that they will expedite the task of rooting out corruption with great gusto.

Radicals, meanwhile, have deviated from the Imperial Truth. They vary immensely in their beliefs, from those who use the forces of the warp against its inhabitants to Inquisitors who seek to shatter the very Imperium they serve. A Radical will often say that all Inquisitors start out as Puritans, but that as they are exposed to the realities of the Imperium and the galaxy beyond, they inevitably become more and more flexible in their ideas and all become Radicals in the end. Puritans, on the other hand, consider the more extreme Radicals to have been corrupted by the very power they wield and the dreadful knowledge to which they are exposed. Most Radicals try to conceal their divergent beliefs when in the company of many other Inquisitors, preferring to pursue their agendas away from the sight of more puritanical souls. Some, however, are outspoken in their views and can gain many enemies in attempting to convert Puritans to their cause. Inquisitors are generally wary of such beliefs within their Acolytes, at least until they have proven themselves over many successful investigations.

It is not unknown for Inquisitors to come into direct conflict over their beliefs. On a few occasions Inquisitors have been dragged into hidden, internecine wars, using the Inquisition's valuable resources (and often their Acolytes) to purge the ranks of their enemies and settle old disputes. Such conflicts are rigorously concealed from the rest of the Imperium, and even the highest-ranking adepts would be de-eply shocked to discover that these inscrutable, allpowerful guardians of humanity can be riven with dissent and even murder. Even when these conflicts are not exposed, they simmer beneath the surface—there is probably not a single Inquisitor in the Imperium who does not have an ideological opponent among the Inquisition's ranks. Given that Inquisitors are men and women of action, such conicts always come to a head sooner or later.

For these reasons, Inquisitors are often unwilling to openly identify themselves with one faction or another. Acolytes are frequently in the dark as to their master's true predilections. Some Inquisitors hold that such things are not for the likes of Acolytes, whilst others refuse to discuss such complicated matters until the Acolyte is astute enough to have guessed where their master's beliefs lie. Rumours and half-truths constantly circulate between cells of Acolytes, which only further serves to muddy the water. Acolytes who succeed in divining their master's faction may discover that he holds beliefs that are very different to their own, which can lead to some very interesting moral quandaries.

# **Puritans**

Perhaps the largest Puritan faction in the Calixis Sector are the Amalathians, named after the Conclave of Amalath at which many Inquisitors swore to uphold the stability of the Imperium. Amalathians believe that the Imperium is the Emperor's own work and that it must be preserved in its current state—maintaining the status quo is the goal of the Amalathians. The most extreme Puritan faction is the Monodominants. These hard-line Inquisitors believe that the Imperium can only survive if everything else is destroyed. Monodominants are intolerant in the extreme, advocating the wholesale slaughter of heretics and rebels and xenocidal campaigns against alien races. There are a great many crimes in the mind of a Monodominant, and death is the only sentence.

# **Radicals**

There are too many Radical factions to count, but some have a great many adherents. One of the most prevalent is the Xanthite faction, named after Inquisitor Xanthus who was hunted down and killed by fellow Inquisitors for his beliefs. He believed that the warp, and even the Daemons that lived within it, could be harnessed for the good of humanity. Xanthites study the warp and the ways of Chaos, employ forbidden sorcery, Daemon-wrought artefacts and even bind Daemons into their service. Knowledge is the weapon of choice for a Xanthite, and turning their enemy's weapons against him is their favoured tactic. Meanwhile, the Isstvanian faction, named after Horus' great betrayal of the Imperium at Isstvan III, believes that the Imperium becomes stronger through war and catastrophe. Isstvanians attempt to ferment rebellion and disaster at every opportunity, with mayhem and strife as their primary goal. Many an Inquisitor has investigated a dire threat to the Imperium, only to discover that it is the work of an Isstvanian.

# Methods Methods

*"The end justifies the means."*

*—* High Justicar Prateus.

The methods employed by an Inquisitor can often provide a clue as to their personal philosophies. Each Inquisitor works in a different way, as befits such highly individual beings. Some like to work alone, whilst others employ thousands. Some lean towards direct, personal action, whilst others like to puzzle things out from a sequestered retreat filled with comm-links and data-lines. Whatever the case, the modus operandi of each Inquisitor is unique.

# **AN INQUISITOR'S CADRE**

Broadly speaking, each Inquisitor controls a network of agents beholden to serve his needs and interests. In turn, each Inquisitor also has certain obligations to his Ordo, conclave or conscience, which he must fulfil. An Acolyte quickly learns that he is but a small part of a wide and subtle web of influence, knowledge and power. Frequently he will merit little direct attention from his master—at least until he proves himself capable and worthy.

An Inquisitor may inherit a cadre of people, resources and obligations—particularly if they are taking over from a mentor or deceased colleague. More usually, however, they will create a network over a number of years. Acolytes often find themselves part of a cadre that has an intricate history and must be carefully dealt with. They may find themselves caught up in petty rivalry or suffer jealous outbursts from other cells of Acolytes. They may have to deal with various eccentricities and habits that seem bizarre at first. For example, they may find that their master will only speak to them over vox-link from another room or that they are forbidden to wear the colour blue in the Inquisitor's presence.

# **New Recruits**

Freshly recruited Acolytes are usually bound together into small groups and tasked with simple investigations. Sometimes a promising Acolyte will be told to remain a "sleeper agent" living a normal life until such time as the Inquisitor has found a suitable number of companions to form a cell. Some Inquisitors like to craft finely balanced groups, filled with Acolytes whose skills and personalities perfectly complement one another. Others prefer to throw individuals together and hope that they get on.

These newly forged cells will sometimes be required to swear binding oaths of companionship but, more often than not, the Inquisitor will leave the group alone to figure out their own loyalties, hierarchy and so on. Most Inquisitors do not have the time to nursemaid young Acolytes and view the behaviour of the group at this time to be particularly revealing of their future potential.

New cells will feel pressure to produce results. Successful investigations, thorough purgings, insightful observations and other such victories, all serve to cement their reputation. Cells that fail to perform seldom remain active for long. Occasionally the members will be split up and reassigned, but usually they simply disappear. Dark rumours of mind scrubbings, servitor assignment and other terrible fates constantly circulate between groups of Acolytes, becoming more sinister with each retelling.

Depending on the nature of their master, new Acolytes may have contact with other cells. These may be other inexperienced peers or elder groups. Through these contacts, new Acolytes will generally find out very quickly that there is a great deal they do not know about their master. They certainly will not know the full extent of their Inquisitor's cadre. Other cells within the cadre are just as likely to purposely mislead them about this as they are to help and guide them.

# **Ranks and Player Characters**

In game terms, an Acolyte's progression through the stages of trust and responsibility is represented by their Rank within

their Career Path. As a Player Character gains Ranks, so too does their importance to their master rise.

**1st–3rd Ranks:** New Recruit. Promising, but do they have what it takes?

**4th–6th Ranks:** Proven Acolyte. Demonstrated ability, but are they a survivor?

**7th–8th Ranks:** Trusted Acolyte. Tough and competent—Inquisition material?

**Completed Career Path:** Ready to become an Interrogator?

The manner in which they have gained these Ranks is important. Should they be smart, successful and devoted to the Emperor, they will receive many rewards and exciting tasks to fulfil. If they have merely bumbled through investigations, yet still managed to not die, their master will consider them an Acolyte who is lucky, rather than competent. Of course, in some situations a lucky fool is exactly what is required…

# **Proven Acolytes**

Once a cell has a number of successful missions to its name, it rises in estimation and status within the Inquisitor's cadre. The Acolytes have proven themselves capable and independent enough to take on more difficult assignments. They will gain marginally more time with their master and be given slightly more insight into the nature of the Inquisition. At the same time that they begin to understand what they are involved with, the danger of their duties begins to increase. Inquisitors frequently regard this stage as a crucible, through which only the most driven and capable may pass. Losses at this stage are often high, both of life and limb.

# **Trusted Acolytes**

Naturally enough, the dangers and travails of the Acolyte's lot mean that as time goes on, the ranks thin. The weak, foolish, indiscreet and unlucky do not survive assignment to dangerous tasks. Those that remain are considered capable indeed. Some may even gain the trust of their master. Acolytes that gain their Inquisitor's confidence become powerful and highly useful servants. Often completely accustomed to their master's ways after years of service, trusted Acolytes are allowed to organise and control entire sections of the Inquisitor's cadre. This may be as simple as keeping track of certain cells or as complicated as setting up planet-wide investigations. Trusted Acolytes are often the seneschals and chatelains of the Inquisitor's holdings, running households, businesses, elaborate false identities and the like whilst he is away. Some trusted Acolytes are primed for longterm undercover assignments, becoming vital sleeper agents, nestled in positions of power. Indeed, some shrewd Acolytes hold that Inquisitorial influence is the best way to gain coveted political positions on some worlds. Trusted Acolytes gain a level of independence and knowledge unimaginable to Acolytes lower down the pecking order, to the point where some new recruits are unable to distinguish them from true Inquisitors.

# **Inquisitors in Training**

At some point or another in their career, most Inquisitors will sponsor a promising Acolyte to become a full member of the Inquisition. As usual for the quixotic organisation, there is no single standard way that the Inquisition does this. In some places, Acolytes are sent to formal training schools, where they learn the arts of the Explicator and Interrogator. In other places, the Acolyte is "adopted" by the Inquisitor and learns at their side as an apprentice. On occasion the Acolyte is subjected to strange and painful rituals or abandoned upon some hellish world to walk their own path and prove their worth. The Acolyte may or may not be aware that they are being groomed for power. There have been instances where an aged master has vanished, only to leave their cadre, status and library of secrets to a very surprised Acolyte. Whilst an Inquisitor in training is generally thought to be of a higher status than the ordinary Acolyte, they are still beholden to their master and owe him fealty. Only once they have completed all the necessary rites to become a full Inquisitor will they be considered to have left the Inquisitor's cadre. Even then, their former master will still be able to exert considerable influence upon the new Inquisitor.

Though the structure of the Inquisition is such that a chain of command does not really exist, in practice there are many ways in which other Inquisitors can have influence upon an Inquisitor and their cadre.

At the lowest level, an Inquisitor may spend time assisting lower-ranking Inquisitors with their investigations. There are many reasons why this may be done. The lesser Inquisitor may be an old apprentice or may have information that is much needed. An alliance where the Inquisitor can be sure of a controlling hand may be temporarily necessary or, of course, they may choose to do such a thing out of kindness. Lending assistance will place a strain upon the Inquisitor's resources and Acolytes may well feel the pinch as a result of this. Lower-level, unimportant cells may be temporarily seconded over to the lesser Inquisitor—perhaps even permanently gifted should the need be there. Some Inquisitors see this practice as a perfect way to be rid of troublesome or awkward cells.

An Inquisitor's peers may also have a great effect upon his cadre. It may be that two or more Inquisitors decide to pool their resources to deal with a particular problem. In which case, Acolytes may find themselves working alongside another cell. In other cases, Acolytes may find themselves caught up in rivalries or outright hostility. Should their master be a member of an unpopular faction, Acolytes might find themselves the victims of threats and violence designed to disturb or persuade their Inquisitor away from dangerous beliefs. Zealous rivals might even seek to destroy the cadre completely—and the lives of the Acolytes along with it.

More subtle manipulations might also be passed down from older Inquisitors. It may be that they have specific instructions from an ordo or conclave, which the Acolytes may end up enacting for their master. Elders may act as a mentor for the Inquisitor, guiding them towards particular actions or discouraging them from others. Sometimes Acolytes may find themselves in the uncomfortable position of mistrusting their master's mentor, knowing that a particular deed is suspect, even whilst being forced to carry it out. Even more disturbingly, Acolytes might even be asked to report upon their own master, in cases where corruption is suspected. In these cases, they are frequently trapped between disloyalty to their Inquisitor and seeming to share guilt with a suspected renegade.

#### Exterminatus

278 Exterminatus is the term used for the destruction of an entire planet by order of the Inquisition. As such, it is an incredibly rare and vastly powerful event. The Inquisition has, in theory at least, sole access to the weapons with the potency to destroy a whole world and they vary from high-yield virus weapons to cyclonic torpedoes that can penetrate a planet's crust and tear it apart in a chain reaction. It is a measure of an Inquisitor's strength of will that he is willing to cause the deaths of billions of people through the Exterminatus, but in the case of alien or Daemonic infestation, it takes an Inquisitor to understand that it is for the good of those same people that sometimes the ultimate sanction must be taken.

# **Other Inquisitors** **AN ACOLYTE'S DUTIES**

As part of an Inquisitor's cadre, Acolytes may be called upon to perform various tasks on behalf of their master. They may receive formal orders from their master, written requests, missions dictated by intermediaries or may even be managed by older, more trusted Acolytes.

# **Investigation**

Perhaps the most common mission an Acolyte will be tasked with is the gathering of information. Knowledge is power and the actions of Acolytes allow their master to cast his net wide indeed. Investigations might be full-on covert operations, making use of all manner of high-tech and low cunning. They might also be simple catch-and-question missions. In some cases, psychic disciplines will be necessary. Sometimes Acolytes will need to gather evidence or follow a confusing tangle of leads. In some cases, particularly when uncovering a cult, Acolytes will need to be skilled at following people and extracting information. Wits, skill and speed are all vital parts of succeeding at these sorts of missions.

# **Purge**

Sometimes Acolytes will be charged with the destruction of something, or someone, deemed to be abhorrent. This might be as simple as a surgical strike upon a criminal organisation or as complicated as the destruction of a powerful cult magus. Most cells of Acolytes have standing instructions to destroy any mutants, cultists and the like who they uncover in the course of their investigations. By way of contrast, some cells specialise in assassination of particular targets, such as political leaders, freethinking agitators or all too charismatic preachers.

Occasionally a particularly dangerous object must be located and destroyed, in which case Acolytes will need both the skills to find and destroy the item, as well as fend off whatever terrible effects it has, and the attentions of other groups who wish to claim it for themselves.

Whilst Acolytes are expected to be capable of defending themselves—indeed, some cells specialise in it—serious assaults where high body counts are necessary are seldom likely to be the sole purview of a cell of Acolytes. Inquisitors will usually call upon the Chambers Militant of their Ordo or conclave to bring additional firepower to the fray. Acolytes can sometimes find themselves working alongside Sisters of Battle, or even the Deathwatch. Of course, these forces are only involved if serious resistance is anticipated. If Acolytes walk into a room full of highly armed cultists by accident, escaping with their lives is their own concern.

# **Special Circumstances**

Sometimes Acolytes will find themselves sent to perform tasks that they do not understand or that are somewhat unusual. Perhaps they will be asked to take a tour of duty aboard one of the Black Ships or to help round up rogue psykers. Sometimes they might be asked to guard an item or individual, or courier shipments between worlds. Perhaps they will be asked to trial new combat stimms, live amongst xenos or masquerade as a hive gang for a number of months. Sometimes they will need to do darker deeds, such as find a suitable Daemonhost or investigate a rival Inquisitor for corruption. These sorts of tasks are often the ones that produce the most hesitation and moral quandary within Acolytes, for it is not always clear if their action is a good or bad one.

# **Tradition**

*"Only the wisest and stupidest men ever change." —* Lady Olivia Ol'Wynn of Hive Sibellus.

O One of the few constants of the Inquisition is that there are no standard regulations, codes of practice or "correct" behaviour. Whilst the other Adepta follow dogma set down millennia ago, the Inquisition remains a flexible and unpredictable organisation. An Inquisitor is free to arrange his affairs in any manner that suits his needs and personality. However, humans being the creatures they are, the Inquisition does possess a certain level of tradition and custom within its various ordos and conclaves. The Calixian Conclave, for example, looks to the ancient wisdom of the Scintillan Dictates to guide it, inscribing and interpreting its principles until they have an almost liturgical quality to them.

# **SYMBOLS**

Perhaps the most common shared traditions are those steeped in powerful symbolism. In many ways, man is a very simple creature, who responds very well to certain images. The Inquisition knows this, and is happy to exploit it to suit its own needs.

Fire is traditionally associated with the Inquisition and its works. The image of the cleansing flame is a strong one and Acolytes are encouraged to employ it when they have need to strike fear. Wherever there is the whitehot excruciator, a witch pyre or a promethium-dripping flamer, there too is the Inquisition. Other than the literal interpretation of fire as a weapon, there are other uses for such symbolism. Many Inquisitors consider their role to be that of the cleansing flame, there to burn away the rotting esh of corruption. Some also hold that they are guardians of the Emperor's light, the holy flame of faith. Those that attend the Black Ships speak of fuelling the mystical beacon of the Astronomican, casting willing souls into the furnace of the Emperor's will.

The hammer is also associated with the Inquisition. Many Inquisitors carry gorgeously bedecked warhammers with which to smite their foes. Like the Ecclesiarchy, many members of the Inquisition regard the hammer as a metaphor for piety, the force by which heresy and corruption are crushed. Warhammers are common gifts for Acolytes who have proven themselves especially adept at destroying cultists and heretics.

Aside from the flame and the hammer, perhaps the most powerful of the Inquisition's symbols is the Seal. Each Inquisitor bears an Inquisitorial Seal. This is a small amulet or icon in the shape of a stylised column. Thought to depict a pillar of strength or rod of control, this seal is their badge of office and for an Inquisitor to reveal it shows that he is demanding that his authority be respected. An Inquisitor who shows his seal to a planetary governor, for instance, expects to have the planet's resources at his disposal from that moment onwards. The Inquisitorial Seal is, in a sense, an Inquisitor's most important item of equipment, and he will never willingly relinquish it. Some seals incorporate circuits and sonic probes that can be used to hack into cogitators and open electronic locks, or double as simple weapons to ensure that the Inquisitor is never unarmed.

An Inquisitor and his cadre can also display the Inquisitorial Rosette, a symbol of the Inquisition worn on an Inquisitor's clothing or wargear. The rosette can be worn by those in an Inquisitor's employ and can also be displayed on vehicles or by the armed forces being used by the Inquisitor. The rosette signifies that an individual is in the employ of the Inquisition and is enough to ensure the fearful cooperation of most adepts and citizens who know of the Inquisition's purpose. The rosette, however, is used very sparingly, as most Inquisitors prefer to keep themselves and their Acolytes low-key. The rosette is most commonly used when in the company of fellow members of the Inquisition or when an Inquisitor wishes to strike fear and awe into the common man.

# **CUSTOMS OF THE CALIXIAN CONCLAVE**

The Calixian Conclave has many traditions and rites unique to its organisation. These have grown up over the many hundreds of years that the conclave has watched over the sector and serve to bind the Acolytes and Inquisitors together through common custom. Whilst some pay little more than lip service to these habits, others treat them as seriously as the Imperial Creed.

When they are new to the Inquisition, Acolytes are unlikely to be party to the mysteries and traditions of the conclave. They are likely to find the unwritten rules of the group inexplicable at first. Their first encounter with such things might be to attend a consecration of a temple as an honour guard or to stand outside the door of an Inquisitorial gathering, knocking three times and being refused access. Others might be sent to collect an annual tithe of thanks, only to discover it is naught but a slap in the face and a sack of grain.

As they become accustomed to the ways of the conclave, Acolytes may be invited to take part in the cycle of gatherings and rituals. They may also get to know the unspoken laws of etiquette and behaviour common to the conclave. Their master, for example, may instruct them in the Scintillan Dictates, or else an elder cell of Acolytes may decide to take them under their wing. Acolytes may choose to reject the trapping

of the conclave, indeed, if their Inquisitor is of Radical tendencies, they may be encouraged to ride roughshod over the "proper way" of doing things. They are, of course, free to do so but such behaviour will mark them out as "strange", "difficult" and "unreliable".

There are countless rituals and practices used by the Calixian Conclave. Some are highly obscure, attended only by a few or only taught to those with the proper level of initiation. Others are widely known by Acolytes and Inquisitors alike. Some of the most common customs are presented below.

# **Petitioning**

An Inquisitor expects much of his Acolytes, however, as with any feudal master, he holds some obligation to his servants. Acolytes have a right to request things from their master. This may be as simple as a shot of amasec and a ten minute briefing or as grandiose as an entire moon. The Inquisitor may not always grant these petitions, but cleverly made, apt or amusing requests may be heard. Experienced Acolytes know only to ask for things that cannot be had in any other way and to ask for them in an unusual fashion. Those that ask for too much too often are considered to be somewhat foolish and are generally ignored. Many Acolytes spend some time sizing up their master's foibles before making a petition.

# **Customs in Game Terms**

The customs of the Calixian Conclave can add to games of Dark Heresy in many ways. For example, if a Game Master wishes to run a game involving intrigue between Inquisitors, a great feast or ritual gathering can make a perfect backdrop. Similarly, scenarios where Acolytes must sneak into a shrine of Saint Aret to recover a hidden file are full of possibility. Severely wounded characters that spend a Fate Point to avoid death might see a vision of Saint Uthur guiding them or even believe that the Saint has performed a miracle. Some Player Characters might spend a long time working out the details of a spectacularly intricate petition, whilst others might merely carry an icon of Saint Castor to smooth away their troubles.

Players and Game Masters should feel free to invent their own saints, customs and rituals, for the Calixian Conclave is a huge and convoluted organisation. No book could ever hope to chart all of the traditions of such a complicated and superstitious group.

**The Scintillan Dictates**

Some centuries past, legendary Inquisitor Heraclion Theos issued a series of letters that have now become common teaching for Acolytes of the Calixian Conclave. Originally intended for investigators stationed on the capital planet of Scintilla, later generations of scholars have read many deeper levels of meaning and interpretation into what, on the face of it, seem very simple instructions.

#### Thy master's will shalt be the whole of the law.

This is loosely translated to mean that Acolytes should not be held back by local custom and law. In the service of the Inquisition, even the darkest of illegal acts are sometimes justified.

#### Thou shalt know thy duties.

Broadly speaking, Acolytes should know their remit and dutifully follow their instructions. This dictat is also interpreted to mean that Acolytes should not stand by and allow heresy and other transgressions to go unpunished even if their Inquisitor seems unaware of them.

# Thou shalt not over-esteem thine own importance.

This dictat causes some confusion amongst scholars. It is generally agreed to be an admonishment to remember that each Acolyte is but a small part of a larger picture, which only the Inquisitor has access to. Some believe it to be a reminder that sacrifice, even of one's own life, is a necessary part of the Inquisition's work.

# Thou shalt not make improper use of thy master's purse, nor his seal, nor his name either.

Perhaps the clearest of the dictates, this is almost universally held to be a warning against abusing the incredible resources an Inquisitor can call upon. Most also believe that it is a commandment to be subtle in one's work, invoking the Inquisition only when absolutely necessary. Some Acolytes take this dictat to extremes, living in penury and never speaking the name of their master, lest they draw his wrath.

#### Thou shalt seek no reward but the satisfaction of thy master.

Commonly believed to be a warning against profiteering from investigations, this dictat has perhaps the widest leeway attached to it. Some Inquisitors closely watch their Acolytes and their possessions to ensure that they are not becoming too luxuriant. Others seldom bother looking into their servants' dealings. Most ensure that Acolytes do not display their status too openly, knowing that the temptation to show off, impress attractive strangers, claim recognition, free drinks or notoriety can all too easily lead to disaster or corruption.

#### Thou shalt be glad of thy master's punishment, for it is deserved and it improves thee.

282 282 Opinions vary wildly about this dictat, depending mostly, it seems, upon the nature of the person doing the interpretation. Some flagellants hold that "deserved punishment" is an Acolyte's lot, as a poor and stumbling vessel of the Emperor's will. Meanwhile, some point to the concept of constant improvement implied in the dictat as proof that Acolytehood is but a crucible, intended to burn away impurity and forge a strong and powerful Inquisitor from what was once humble clay. Some, admittedly more cynical in nature, hold that the true essence of this dictat is a commandment to rejoice, for even whilst being punished, the lot of an Acolyte is far, far better than that of the average citizen.

# **The Emperor's Grace**

Acolytes and their masters see and do many things that the mortal mind was not meant to witness. Faith is all too easily tested by the horrors of Daemons, mutation and corruption. The Calixian Conclave offers its servants indulgence, grace and confession via Inquisitor-Priests skilled in the arts of absolution. Acolytes may be offered forgiveness for the deaths of innocents and for heresies gone unpunished whilst undercover. Preparatory funerary rites can also offer the Emperor's grace to those about to embark on tasks where death is likely. These Inquisitor-Priests also form a vital part of the Exterminatus ritual, in which they cleanse the soul of the murder of a world.

The Calixian Conclave also has a small and secret number of Imperial saints ordained and worshipped in a furtive manner by blind, mute priests of the Ecclesiarchy. Acolytes often call upon these saints to intercede on their behalf, bringing prayer and confession before the eyes of the Emperor Himself. They also swear oaths by the saints, particularly when in a tight spot.

# **Saint Uthur the Cataplast**

Known as "Uthur the Unfortunate" or "The Cursed", Saint Uthur is said to accept misfortune and suffering upon the behalf of others. Acolytes insist that he was once one of their number, where that official canon states that he was an Inquisitor-Priest. Uthur is usually invoked to guard against injuries. Tradition states that if one screams to the Saint loud enough before looking at a wound, he may be convinced to take some of the injury upon himself. Devotees burn bandages in his honour or smear statues of him in medicae balm. Saint Uthur is usually depicted as a weeping middle-aged man clutching an imbalanced scale and a lightning rod. Images of Uthur traditionally have ninety-nine wounds, each caused by a different calamity. It is a point of pride amongst statue carvers to ensure that no two icons of Saint Uthur are the same.

# **Saint Castor the Obviate**

The remover of obstacles and patron of truth. Legend has it that this missionary endured all manner of undignified public punishments upon the feudal world of Maccabeus Quintus, including five attempts to cut off his head. Each one failed until he pointed out an error with the guillotine's mechanism. According to the legend of his beatification, the people of Maccabeus Quintus were so impressed by his pious devotion that they rose up in support of the Imperial Creed, casting down their government to much rejoicing. Acolytes call upon Saint Castor to watch over interrogations, smile upon investigations and speed answers to the minds of researchers.

# **Saint Aret the Lethecant**

Saint Aret is a martyr. The nature of his death, and indeed his true name, has been lost over the ages. At the time it was generally agreed that his miraculous death was truly one of the most spectacular cases of martyrdom ever seen. However, it seems in the centuries between the petition for his beatification and the eventual granting of the sainthood, his legend was forgotten. When the scribes of the Calixian

Conclave searched their archives, they found that the only book of his deeds was damaged, his name half-erased and his achievements mouldered away. After much debate, it was decided that Saint Aret should guard over that which should not be remembered. His shrines are dust-filled archive rooms where forbidden scrolls are abandoned and data is sent to decay and die. Statues of Aret usually have large ears, so that Acolytes may whisper their fears, deeds and memories to the

# **Death**

Acolytes and Inquisitors of the Calixian Conclave are offered a great honour upon death that many Imperial

Saint, who will bear them away, to trouble them no more.

citizens could never dream of attaining. When death in service arises, the name of the departed is passed along to the script-savants of the conclave. This ancient brood of lexiconographers record the names of the dead in vast tomes, bound in creaking leathers and smeared with preservative oils. The skulls of especially honoured servants are ground within mortuary pestles and the bone dust used to set the ink upon the vellum pages. Once full—a regrettably frequent event—the tome is sealed with gold and lead. These golden ledgers are then sent to Terra, where the books are interred in vast subterranean data-crypts, there to rest for all eternity near the Emperor Himself. This practice is known as "descripting", and many Acolytes say that a dead comrade has been "written up" or "gilded".

Now, Shoulder Your Burden for the Glory of the Emperor Contained herein has been the merest overview of the Imperium of Man. The glory of our Emperor casts its light upon a million worlds and so the information I present here is, sadly, of a limited nature. There is much more to learn about the galaxy and a great deal of that will test the body, mind and soul. Perils unnumbered lie around every corner and the sights and sounds of a million cultures will attempt to confound you, but be strong and you will prevail. In reading this you have begun to prepare yourself for the journey you must take. The enemies of the Imperium are everywhere and the long war needs new soldiers. Soldiers like you. For whatever reason, you have been selected by an Imperial operative to serve him in his travails as he seeks to bring order to the chaos of the galaxy. Serve him well and you will forever know the light of the Emperor and dwell in His favour. Survive, and one day you may find yourself recruiting others as you yourself have been recruited, passing on the torch of duty and obligation to others so that more men may come to dwell in peace under the watchful eye of our undying lord. That it is a burden not shouldered lightly is plain, but we carry the weight of the galaxy lightly upon our backs, for should we stumble, the Emperor will be at our side to steady our steps. Now, gird yourself, take up your weapons and prepare your mind. The Emperor and mankind needs you. **O. S. C.**