*"Place your faith in the Emperor, and always carry a big gun."* — Mordechai Voght, High Marshall.

The 41st Millennium is a dangerous place, rife with war and conflict, and if an Acolyte hopes to survive he must make sure that he is well armed and equipped. This chapter deals with some of the many types of weapons, armor and gear that exist within the Imperium. Equipment, especially weapons and armor, make up a vital part of an Acolyte's resources and the difference between success and failure on a mission can often come down to having the right gear.

# **A Dark Age of Technology**

In the 41st Millennium most technology is a mystery to man and many of its secrets have been buried beneath countless centuries of ignorance and superstition. Acolytes may understand the rudiments of how their weapons and tech gear work, at least in principle, but more likely they know that if they mumble the right words and make the right motions and gestures (rubbing oil here, twisting that knob there) their equipment will work. Showing this respect for the spirit that dwells within a weapon is always wise and only those who want their gun to fail in the midst of battle would ignore such observances.

# MONEY

*"You might see a sky full of stars; I see money to be made."* — Mistress Katrina Zaat, Rogue Trader.

As Acolytes quickly discover, money is an essential part of what makes the Imperium tick. From the simple street hawkers of a grubby feral world up to the most powerful Rogue Traders, the flow of cash is a vital part of life. A

# **Throne Gelt**

Wealth and money takes many forms throughout the Calixis Sector. On some worlds Acolytes may find people trading with precious shell tokens or coins of rare metals, while on others they may encounter cloth trade scrits and currency tracked only in the circuits of cogitators. In Dark Heresy all of these kinds of currency are referred to as Throne Gelt or Thrones. A Throne is a measure of currency throughout the Calixis Sector, secured against the massive amounts of wealth generated by Imperial planetary tithes. In its most literal form, Throne Gelt refers to what is essentially the Emperor's money.

You can use Thrones to gauge the price of items from world to world as well as the Acolyte's own personal wealth, even though they may carry a myriad of different forms of currency.

# **Income**

All Acolytes gain a monthly income while in the employ of an Inquisitor. This represents money they generate in their spare time doing other (sometimes shady) jobs, investments or trusts they might have or even a stipend from their illustrious employer. In game terms, however, a character always receives their income without having to specifically do anything. GMs of course are free to increase, decrease or halt an Acolyte's income should he decide the plot calls for it, or if they are not pleasing their master!

| Table 5-1: Income and Social Class |                       |               |                                                                                                                                |
| ---------------------------------- | --------------------- | ------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Social Class                       | Thrones/Month         | Rank Increase | Description                                                                                                                    |
| Outcasts (Scum)                    | 20†                   | Special†      | Those that have no rightful place within the structure of Imperial society, living below even the lowest classes.              |
| Drudging Classes                   | 30                    | 3             | Those that work in the fields, factoriums and hives ofthe Imperium, by far making up the bulk of mankind.                      |
| Military Class (Guardsmen)         | 50                    | 5             | Those that fight.                                                                                                              |
| Supine Class (Arbitors, Psykers)   | 70                    | 7             | Those that serve classes better than themselves, benefiting from the wealth of their masters.                                  |
| Learned Class (Adepts)             | 100                   | 10            | Those that make their way with knowledge.                                                                                      |
| Trading Classes (Assassins)        | 120                   | 12            | Those that buy and sell or have specialist trades with which to make their living.                                             |
| Mechanicus (Tech-Priests)          | 150                   | 15            | Those that follow the Machine God are a class unto themselves.                                                                 |
| Ministorum (Clerics)               | 200                   | 20            | Those of the Cult of the Emperor and benefit greatly from the uncounted wealth of His domain.                                  |
| Nobility                           | 500                   | 50            | Those born to wealth and power by right of blood.                                                                              |
| Unbound Classes                    | <expunged></expunged> |               | Those with the freedom to travel the Imperium as they wish, such as Inquisitors of the dreaded Ordos or elusive Rogue Traders. |
| †see Table 5-2: Scum Income.       |                       |               |                                                                                                                                |
All income is based on social class. An Acolyte's starting Career Path determines his social class and consequently his starting wealth—see **Table 1-9: Starting Wealth** on **[page](#page-29-0) [2](#page-29-0)**9. All of this does not, of course, preclude a character from engaging in other moneymaking schemes during play.

Every time a character gains a new Rank in their Career Path their monthly income may increase, subject to the GMs agreement, by the amount indicated in the Rank Increase column of **Table 5-1: Rank and Social Class**. *For example*, *a Guardsman has a basic monthly income of 50 Thrones. This will increase to 55 Thrones after he achieves his second Rank in his Career Path.* GMs should feel free to change this Rank-based increase depending on such achievements as titles and honours which would not otherwise have any game effect.

Players with characters on the Scum Career Path should roll 1d10 and refer to **Table 5-2: Scum Income** in order to calculate the Thrones they "earn" each month.

|                | Table 5-2: Scum Income                   |  |            |  |
|----------------|------------------------------------------|--|------------|--|
| D10            | Result                                   |  | Earnings   |  |
| 1–3            | Scrounge                                 |  | 10+1d10    |  |
| 4–5            | Scam                                     |  | 15+FB d10  |  |
| 6–7            | Steal                                    |  | 15+AB d10  |  |
| 8–9            | Scheme                                   |  | 15+ IB d10 |  |
| 10             | Luck                                     |  | 50+ FP d10 |  |
| FP=Fate Points | FB=Fel Bonus, AB=Ag Bonus, IB=Int Bonus, |  |            |  |

# **Example**

*Pincher Smyth, underhiver Scum, calculates his income by rolling 1d10 and consulting the table. Pincher rolls a 6, so his income mainly comes from stealing. Now Pincher works out his income as 28 Thrones (rolls 3d10 (AB of 3), giving 3, 4, 6—a total of 13, adds this to 15 giving a total of 28).*

# **Acolyte Stipend**

As Acolytes prove their worth by successfully accomplishing missions and assignments, their Inquisitor may decide to provide further support. For example, this could include increasing the Acolyte's monthly income by a further 10–50 Thrones or more, or furnishing them with regular ammo supplies. Ultimately this will be decided by the GM, and it is an important indicator of the Inquisitor's regard for his Acolytes.

*"Listen friend, where you come from every man and his grox might have a lasgun, but in my shop you can either buy a crossbow or get out."*

— Greeb, Port Suffering armorer.

Having the money does not always guarantee the desired goods or services are at hand. Squalid medieval worlds are a lot less likely to have expensive goods than the marketplaces of a hive city. Moreover, finding a high-quality weapon on a backwater planet is far more difficult than locating such a weapon in a teeming metropolis. To reflect availability, each piece of equipment or service has an associated Availability, ranging from abundant to very rare. GMs can use the following guidelines as a starting point for determining whether a place has such an item or not. H

Characters searching for a particular item or service must make a successful Inquiry Test modified by the Availability of the item, **Table 5-3: Consequences of Availability on [page](#page-126-0) [126](#page-126-0)** provides a baseline modifier for Inquiry Tests to find an item in a community of 1,000 people or less. For communities larger than 1,000 people, reduce the Difficulty for finding an object by one step for communities of 10,000 or less, or two steps for communities of 10,000 or more. If the community has 100 people or less, increase the Difficulty by one step. **Table 5-4: Availability by Population, [page 126](#page-126-0)** shows how the Difficulty changes based on population size.

Calixian Currencies

While Thrones are a common term throughout the sector, most citizens continue to use local names for currency. These can vary widely from one planet to the next and may even differ within a world itself. Some of the more prominent terms for Thrones within the Calixis Sector include Scints : , Scolds and Scabs—These are all terms used in the hives of Scintilla, and have become synonyms with the most valuable denominations of the Thrones, based in no small part on that world''s excessive levels of wealth.

Soules—On the war world of Iocanthos many believe that their money is forever stained by the blood of mercenaries, giving rise to the idea of trading in the souls of fallen warriors.

Rounds—Used in the depths of Gunmetal City, where actual bullets are sometimes used as currency.

Chips or Lumps—In the mines and villages of Sepheris Secundus, life revolves around endless mining, to the point where chips and lumps of ore are synonymous with Thrones.

Lords and Ladies—On the medieval backwater of Acreage, each noble is responsible for minting his own coins, with the value of each make of coin being directly tied to the fortunes of the lord or lady whose likeness it bears.

Scales or Fins—On the water world of Spectoris, fish are found in all aspects of life, to the point where being particularly flush with cash is often referred to as having a shoal of fins or looking a bit scaly.

# **Example**

*Drake needs a new lasgun. A lasgun is a Common item, and so he gains a +10 bonus on his Inquiry Test to find it in a typical settlement with a population of about 7,000. If he looks in a small farming outpost with a population of only 400 the Difficulty becomes Challenging (no bonus), but if he looks in a city with a population of 80,000, the Difficulty lessens to Routine, giving him a +20 bonus.*

| Availability +30Routine+20Ordinary+10 | Difficulty  | Modifier |
| ------------------------------------- | ----------- | -------- |
| Abundant                              | Easy        |          |
| Plentiful                             |             |          |
| Common                                |             |          |
| Average                               | Challenging | +0       |
| Scarce                                | Difficult   | –10      |
| Rare                                  | Hard        | –20      |
| Very Rare                             | Very Hard   | –30      |

# **TIME**

Just because a large community actually has the item a character seeks does not necessarily mean that it is easy to locate. The larger the community, the more time it takes to track the item down. A community's size determines the base time it takes to find the item. Each degree of success reduces this time by a certain amount (minutes, hours, days, weeks, or months, depending on the base time). See **Table 5-5: Availability and Time**. The GM should make the roll in secret for particularly dangerous or costly items, to emphasise the struggle and possible risks entailed by such searching.

# **Availability and Technology**

Some things are not just hard to find on certain worlds, but impossible. For instance, while a lasgun may be a common piece of equipment in most parts of the Imperium, you are unlikely to find one pretty much anywhere on a feral or medieval world. The GM can therefore decide to either make an item harder to find or even impossible to acquire because it uses technology not readily available to the world or locale.

# Craftmanship CRAFTSMANSHIP

*"You will treasure this weapon, you will use it wisely in battle and you will honour its sacred spirit with prayer, for after you are long gone this weapon's service to the Emperor will go on."* — Ergar Keer, Enginseer.

Not all goods are of the same quality. In the vastness of the Imperium, and beyond, the craftsmanship of items can vary widely from crudely made, massproduced materials to handcrafted masterpieces.

Normally, Craftsmanship has little effect on game play for regular goods and services. As a general rule items of Poor Craftmanship are more prone to failure and breaking while Good and Best Craftsmanship are more durable, though it is up to the GM how and when these effects might enter play. In the case of weaponry and armor, there are effects on the item's performance or weight (as detailed later), but in cases of general goods and services, differences of quality are merely descriptive. The GM may reduce the Difficulty of certain tests, but it is entirely at his discretion. Unless specifically stated, the Craftsmanship of any object is considered Common.

| Table 5–4: Availability by PopulationDifficulty by Population |                 |              |               |                 |
| ------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------- | ------------ | ------------- | --------------- |
| Availability                                                  | Below 1,000     | Below 10,000 | Below 100,000 | 100,000 or more |
| Abundant                                                      | Routine         | Easy         | Automatic     | Automatic       |
| Plentiful                                                     | Ordinary        | Routine      | Easy          | Automatic       |
| Common                                                        | Challenging     | Ordinary     | Routine       | Easy            |
| Average                                                       | Difficult       | Challenging  | Ordinary      | Routine         |
| Scarce                                                        | Hard            | Difficult    | Challenging   | Ordinary        |
| Rare                                                          | Very Hard       | Hard         | Difficult     | Challenging     |
| Very Rare                                                     | GM's discretion | Very Hard    | Hard          | Difficult       |

| Table 5–5: Availability and TimeDifficulty by Population (Base Time by Availability) |            |            |            |            |            |            |            |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ---------- | ---------- | ---------- | ---------- | ---------- | ---------- | ---------- |
| Population                                                                           | Very Rare  | Rare       | Scarce     | Average    | Common     | Plentiful  | Abundant   |
| Below 1,000                                                                          | 1d10 hours | 1 hour     | 30 minutes | 15 minutes | 10 minutes | 5 minutes  | 1 minute   |
| Below 10,000                                                                         | 1d10 days  | 1d10 hours | 1 hour     | 30 minutes | 15 minutes | 10 minutes | 5 minutes  |
| Below 100,000                                                                        | 1d10 weeks | 1d10 days  | 1d10 hours | 1 hour     | 30 minutes | 15 minutes | 10 minutes |
| 100,000 or more                                                                      | 1d5 months | 1d10 weeks | 1d10 days  | 1d10 hours | 1 hour     | 30 minutes | 15 minutes |



| Craftsmanship | Cost Multiplier | Availability    |
|---------------|-----------------|-----------------|
| Best          | ×10             | Drop 2 steps    |
| Good          | ×3              | Drop 1 step     |
| Common        | ×1              | —               |
| Poor          | ×1/2            | Increase 1 step |

# **Example**

*Drake realises he cannot afford a brand new lasgun, so he decides to settle for a Poor quality one. The cost for such a weapon is halved, and there are plenty of them, increasing the availability from Common to Plentiful.*

# Weapons WEAPONS

*"There is no arguing with the barrel of a gun."* — Ancient (pre-Heresy) Proverb.

W Weapons are divided into several groups covering a plethora of ranged weapons, dealing with everything from crossbows to plasma cannons, and melee weapons covering all manner of close combat weaponry. Unless they are of Poor quality, all weapons come with the appropriate holster or carrying strap as part of their cost.

# **A Galaxy of Guns**

The Imperium is vast, and amongst its billions of inhabited worlds there are countless forge worlds, factories, craftsmen, artificers and blacksmiths turning out weapons and armor. As can be imagined this produces a practically limitless variety of makes, patterns and brands. It would be impossible to detail each and every different make of weapon in the Imperium (or even a small fraction of them), so the weapons, armor and equipment in this chapter represent the most common designs and designations. You can, of course, create the makes and patterns for your weapons as you see fit; after all, having a Gorgon-Pattern H-12 Widowmaker is far cooler than just having a stub revolver.

All weapons have a profile that is presented using the following statistics, providing players and GMs with all the relevant information needed to use them:

**Name:** What the weapon is called.

**Class:** Describes what class the weapon is, either a melee, thrown, pistol, basic or heavy weapon.

• *Melee* weapons can be used in close combat. When using a melee weapon you add your SB to the damage you inflict.

• *Thrown* weapons cover anything propelled by muscle power

alone and covers knives, axes, spears and such like. Unless they are also classed as melee, thrown weapons cannot be used in close combat (or if they do, they count as improvised weapons). When using a thrown weapon you add your SB to the damage you inflict (with the exception of explosives such as grenades).

• *Pistol* weapons are fired one-handed and can be used in close combat. However, when a pistol is used in close combat, the firer gains no bonuses or penalties to hit for range or targeting equipment.

• *Basic* weapons normally require two hands but can be used one-handed with a –20 penalty to hit.

•*Heavy* weapons always require two hands and must be braced in some way, usually either on a bipod or tripod but equally it could be a windowsill or sandbag (or the firer's shoulder in the case of RPG launchers), to be fired without penalties. Firing a heavy weapon without bracing incurs a –30 penalty to hit and prohibits Semi-Auto and Full Auto fire.

# **Bracing**

Bracing a weapon takes a Half Action and once braced the firer cannot move without losing the benefits of being braced. They can however traverse their weapon depending on the kind of bracing they have (i.e. a sill or pile of rubble would allow a 45 degree traverse as would simply lying on the ground, a bipod would allow a 90 degrees traverse and a tripod 180 degrees, while a pintle mounting could be turned in any direction).

**Range:** This number is used to determine how far the weapon can be accurately fired in metres. A weapon's Short Range is half this number while its Long Range is double this number (for ranged bonuses and penalties see **Chapter VII: Playing the Game, [pages 198](#page-198-0)[-199](#page-199-0)**). Weapons cannot be fired at targets more than four times their range distance.

**RoF (Rate of Fire):** Tells you if the weapon can be fired either on Semi-Auto or Full Auto and how many rounds/ charges it expends when doing so. A weapon's RoF has three entries to indicate the modes a weapon can be fired in. The first entry indicates whether the weapon can be fired singly (with an S). The second entry indicates whether or not a weapon can be fired semi-automatically, and the number listed describes the shots fired. Finally, the third entry describes if the weapon can be fired on full automatic. Any mode in which the weapon cannot be fired is indicated with a "—".

Some weapons can be fired in more than one mode. If this is the case each of its different rates of fire will be listed in its profile. Characters must choose which mode they are firing their weapon in before making their attack.

**Dam (Damage):** The Damage the weapon does and the type of damage it inflicts for the purpose of Criticals (as shown in brackets): (E) Energy, (X) Explosive, (R) Rending, (I) Impact.

**Pen (Penetration):** Reflects how good the weapon is at going through armor. When a shot or blow from this weapon hits a target, reduce the target's armor Points by the weapon's Penetration, with results of less than 0 counting as 0 (i.e. the armor provides no protection at all). Then work out Damage as normal. So for example, if a weapon with a Penetration of 3 hits a target with 5 armor Points, the target will only count as having 2 armor Points against any damage the hit causes. Note that Penetration has no effect on fields, but it does affect cover.

**Clip:** How many rounds/charges the weapon holds when fully loaded.

**Rld (Reload):** How many Actions the weapon takes to reload. This is generally Half (for a Half Action) or Full (for a Full Action). Some weapons can take a number of Actions over several Rounds. The number of Rounds is given as a number, for example 2Full means that reloading takes 2 Full Rounds.

**Special:** This tells you if the weapon has any special qualities, such as creating a blast when fired or needing to recharge between shots.

**Wt (Weight):** Represents how much the weapon weighs, normally in kg (kilograms).

**Cost:** Indicates the standard value of the weapon within the Imperium. Cost is always represented in Thrones.

**Availability:** This identifies the weapon's availability (see **Table 5-3: Consequences of Availability, [page 126](#page-126-0)**).

# Weapon Special Qualities WEAPON SPECIAL QUALITIES

Some weapons possess special qualities to represent such things as special damage or unusual effects.

# **Weapon Craftsmanship**

All the weapons detailed here are of Common craftsmanship. For weapons of better or worse manufacture use the following modifiers:

**Poor:** These cheaply constructed ranged weapons are

more prone to malfunction. A ranged weapon of Poor craftmanship has the Unreliable quality. If the weapon already has this quality then it will jam on any failed rolled to hit. Melee weapons of Poor craftsmanship incur a –10 penalty to tests made to attack.

**Good:** More carefully constructed and finished, these weapons are consequently more reliable. Ranged weapons of Good craftsmanship have the Reliable quality. If it already has this quality there is no further effect beyond the obvious fine workmanship of the weapon. Melee weapons of Good craftsmanship add a +5 bonus to tests made to attack.

**Best:** A work of art as much as a weapon, these items are created by skilled artisans and are often centuries old. Ranged weapons of Best craftsmanship never suffer from jamming or overheating. If a roll would result in either of these occurrences, simply count it as a miss instead. Melee weapons of Best craftsmanship add a +10 bonus to tests made to attack and add 1 to the Damage they inflict.

# **Accurate**

Some weapons are designed with precision in mind and respond superbly in skilled hands. They grant an additional bonus of +10 to the firer's Ballistic Skill when used with an Aim Action, this is in addition to the bonus granted from Aiming.

"It is the savage beast of war that drives mankind on his course and pursues him to his destruction. It feeds upon his terror. It grows more hungry with each passing year and soon it shall consume him

whole."

# **Balanced**

Some weapons, such as swords and knives, are designed so that the weight of the hilt balances the weight of the blade, making the weapon easier to wield. Balanced weapons grant a +10 bonus to Weapon Skill Tests made to Parry.

# **Blast (X)**

Many missiles, grenades and some guns create an explosion when they hit their target. When working out a hit from a Blast weapon anyone within the weapon's blast radius in metres, indicated by the number in parenthesis, is also hit. Roll Hit Location and Damage individually for each person affected by a blast.

# **Defensive**

A Defensive weapon, such as a shield, is intended to be used to block attacks and is awkward when used for making attacks. Defensive weapons grant a +15 bonus to tests made when used to Parry, but take a –10 penalty when used to make attacks.

# **Flame**

Flame weapons project a cone of flame out to the range of the weapon. Unlike other weapons, flamers have just one range, and when fired, cast fiery death out to this distance. The wielder does not need to Test Ballistic Skill; he simply fires the weapon. All creatures in the flame's path, a cone-shaped area extending in a 30 degree arc from the firer out to the weapon's range, must make an Agility Test or be struck by the flames and take damage normally. If they take damage, they must succeed on a second Agility Test or be set on fire. Cover does not protect characters from attacks made by Flame weapons.

Because Flame weapons make no roll to hit, they are always considered to hit targets in the body, and will Jam if the firer rolls a 9 on his Damage dice (before adding any bonuses).

# **Flexible**

Some weapons are made up from lots of loosely connected segments, such as chains or supple woven hides, such as whips. These kinds of weapons lash about when used to attack and cannot be Parried.

# **Inaccurate**

Weapons with this quality are either badly designed or simply woefully made, and regardless of the care taken when used, offer little better than a lucky chance to hit. No bonus is gained froom the use of the Aim Action with such weapons.

# **oVerheats**

Certain weapons are prone to overheating, either because of poor design or they fire unstable superheated ammunition. An unmodified to hit roll of 91 or higher causes the weapon to Overheat. Roll 1d10 and consult **Table 5-6: Weapon Overheating** to see what happens.

# Table 5–6: Weapon Overheating

### **Roll Effect**

- 1–5 The firer must make a Toughness Test or drop the weapon. The weapon cannot be fired for 1d10 Rounds.
- 6–8 The f irer takes 1d10+2 Energy Damage and must drop the weapon. In addition the weapon is too hot to pick up (anyone trying takes 1d10+1 Energy Damage) for 1d10 Rounds.
- 9–10 The weapon explodes and is destroyed. The firer and anyone within four metres takes Damage as if they had taken a single hit from the weapon.

# **Power fIeld**

A field of power wreathes weapons with this quality, increasing its Damage and Penetration. Such modifiers are already included in the weapon's profile. When you successfully use this weapon to Parry an attack made with a weapon that lacks this quality, you have a 75% chance of destroying your attacker's weapon.

# **Primitive**

Crude and basic in design, these kinds of weapons, while still deadly, are less effective against modern armor. All armor Points are doubled against hits from Primitive weapons, unless the armor also has the Primitive quality.

# **recharge**

Because of the volatile nature of the weapon's ammunition or due to the way it fires, the weapon needs time between shots to Recharge. The weapon must spend the Round after firing building up a charge and cannot be fired—in effect you can only fire the weapon every other Round.

# **relIable**

Based on tried and true technology, Reliable weapons seldom fail. If a Reliable weapon Jams, roll 1d10 and only on a roll of 10 has it in fact Jammed, otherwise it just misses as normal.

# **scatter**

The standard ammunition of these weapons spreads out when fired, hitting more of the target. If fired at a foe within Point Blank range, each two degrees of success the firer scores indicates another hit (use **Table 7-6: Multiple Hits**  on **[page 190](#page-190-0)**). However, at longer ranges this spread of small projectiles reduces its effectiveness. All armor Points are doubled against hits from scatter weapons at Long or Extreme Range.

# **shocking**

Shocking weapons can Stun their opponents with a powerful surge of energy. A target that takes at least 1 point of Damage from a Shocking weapon, after armor and Toughness Bonus, must make a Toughness Test, though they receive a +10 bonus for every armor point they have on the location hit. If they fail, they are Stunned for a number of Rounds equal to half the Damage they suffered.

# **smoke**

Rather than inflicting Damage, these weapons throw up dense clouds of smoke to create cover. When a hit is scored from a weapon with the Smoke quality, it creates a smokescreen 3d10 metres in diameter from the point of impact. This screen lasts for 2d10 Rounds, or less in adverse weather conditions (see the effects of Smoke on **[page 210](#page-210-0)**).

# **snare**

Weapons with this quality are designed to entangle enemies. On a successful hit, the target must make an Agility Test or be immobilised. An immobilised target can attempt no other actions except to try to escape the bonds. He can attempt to burst the bonds (a Strength Test) or wriggle free (an Agility Test) in his Turn. The target is considered helpless until he escapes.

# **tearing**

Tearing weapons are vicious devices, often using multitudes of fast-moving jagged teeth to rip into flesh and bone. These weapons roll two dice for Damage and choose the highest.

# **toxic**

Some weapons rely on toxins and poisons to do their damage. Anyone that takes Damage from a Toxic weapon, after reduction for armor and Toughness Bonus must make a Toughness Test with a –5 penalty for every point of Damage taken. Success indicates there is no further effect from the weapon. Failure however deals an immediate 1d10 points of Impact Damage to the target with no reduction from armor or Toughness Bonus.

**"We eNdeaVour IN the darkNess of battle Who caNNoN WIth the fIght. the tIme for Peace Is oVer aNd NoW It Is tIme to dIe. It Is the age of War aNd our lasts daYs must be lIVed amIdst the souNd of our oWN destructIoN."**

# **Unbalanced**

Heavy and difficult to ready after an attack, these kinds of weapons impose a –10% penalty when used to Parry.

# **Unreliable**

Certain weapons misfire more often than normal because they are badly maintained or constructed. An Unreliable weapon suffers a Jam on a roll of 91 or higher, even if fired on Semior Full Auto.

# **Unstable**

Weapons with this quality use ammunition that is both volatile and unstable and can react unpredictably when detonated. When an Unstable weapon scores a hit, roll 1d10. On a score of 1 it inflicts only half Damage, on a score of 2–9 it deals normal Damage, and on a score of 10 it inflicts twice the normal Damage.

# **Unwieldy**

Huge and often top-heavy, Unwieldy weapons are too awkward to be used defensively. Unwieldy weapons cannot be used to Parry.

# **Using Weapons Without a Talent**

Many of the weapons described in this chapter require a Talent to use them effectively; lacking the necessary ability makes weapons particularly dangerous to employ. Still, there are bound to be circumstances when a character needs to use a weapon for which he does not have the Talent. Doing so imposes a –20 penalty on the relevant Test. If the weapon has the Flame special quality, the target is granted a +30 to his Agility Test to avoid being hit. In addition, when a ranged weapon is used untrained, it counts as having the Unreliable quality, increasing its chance of jamming.

| Table 5–7:Ranged Weapons  |        |       |        |           |     |      |       |                          |        |       |              |
| ------------------------- | ------ | ----- | ------ | --------- | --- | ---- | ----- | ------------------------ | ------ | ----- | ------------ |
| Las Weapons               |        |       |        |           |     |      |       |                          |        |       |              |
| Name                      | Class  | Range | RoF    | Dam       | Pen | Clip | Rld   | Special                  | Wt     | Cost  | Availability |
| Laspistol                 | Pistol | 30m   | S/–/–  | 1d10+2 E  | 0   | 30   | Full  | Reliable                 | 1.5kg  | 50    | Common       |
| Las Carbine               | Basic  | 60m   | S/2/–  | 1d10+2 E  | 0   | 40   | Full  | Reliable                 | 3kg    | 75    | Common       |
| Lasgun                    | Basic  | 100m  | S/3/–  | 1d10+3 E  | 0   | 60   | Full  | Reliable                 | 4kg    | 75    | Common       |
| Long Las                  | Basic  | 150m  | S/–/–  | 1d10+3 E  | 1   | 40   | Full  | Accurate, Reliable 4.5kg |        | 100   | Scarce       |
| MP Lascannon              | Heavy  | 300m  | S/–/–  | 5d10+10 E | 10  | 5    | 2Full | —                        | 55kg   | 5,000 | Very Rare    |
|                           |        |       |        |           |     |      |       |                          |        |       |              |
| Solid Projectile Weapons  |        |       |        |           |     |      |       |                          |        |       |              |
| Name                      | Class  | Range | RoF    | Dam       | Pen | Clip | Rld   | Special                  | Wt     | Cost  | Availability |
| Autopistol                | Pistol | 30m   | S/–/6  | 1d10+2 I  | 0   | 18   | Full  | —                        | 2.5kg  | 75    | Common       |
| Stub Revolver             | Pistol | 30m   | S/–/–  | 1d10+3 I  | 0   | 6    | 2Full | Reliable                 | 1kg    | 40    | Plentiful    |
| Stub Automatic            | Pistol | 30m   | S/3/–  | 1d10+3 I  | 0   | 9    | Full  | —                        | 1.5kg  | 50    | Plentiful    |
| Hand Cannon               | Pistol | 35m   | S/–/–  | 1d10+4 I  | 2   | 5    | 2Full | —                        | 3kg    | 65    | Average      |
| Autogun                   | Basic  | 90m   | S/3/10 | 1d10+3 I  | 0   | 30   | Full  | —                        | 3.5kg  | 100   | Average      |
| Hunting Rifle             | Basic  | 150m  | S/–/–  | 1d10+3 I  | 0   | 5    | Full  | Accurate                 | 5kg    | 100   | Scarce       |
| Shotgun                   | Basic  | 30m   | S/–/–  | 1d10+4 I  | 0   | 2    | 2Full | Scatter, Reliable        | 5kg    | 60    | Common       |
| Pump-Action Shotgun Basic |        | 30m   | S/–/–  | 1d10+4 I  | 0   | 8    | 2Full | Scatter                  | 5kg    | 75    | verage       |
| Combat Shotgun            | Basic  | 30m   | S/3/–  | 1d10+4 I  | 0   | 18   | Full  | Scatter                  | 6.5kg  | 150   | Scarce       |
| Heavy Stubber             | Heavy  | 120m  | –/–/10 | 1d10+4 I  | 3   | 200  | 2Full | —                        | 35kg   | 750   | Scarce       |
|                           |        |       |        |           |     |      |       |                          |        |       |              |
| Bolt Weapons              |        |       |        |           |     |      |       |                          |        |       |              |
| Name                      | Class  | Range | RoF    | Dam       | Pen | Clip | Rld   | Special                  | Wt     | Cost  | Availability |
| Bolt Pistol               | Pistol | 30m   | S/2/–  | 1d10+5 X  | 4   | 8    | Full  | —                        | 3.5 kg | 250   | Rare         |
| Boltgun                   | Basic  | 90m   | S/2/–  | 1d10+5 X  | 4   | 24   | Full  | —                        | 7 kg   | 500   | Very Rare    |
| Heavy Bolter              | Heavy  | 120m  | –/–/10 | 2d10 X    | 5   | 60   | 2Full | —                        | 40 kg  | 2,000 | Very Rare    |
|                           |        |       |        |           |     |      |       |                          |        |       |              |
| Melta Weapons             |        |       |        |           |     |      |       |                          |        |       |              |
| Name                      | Class  | Range | RoF    | Dam       | Pen | Clip | Rld   | Special                  | Wt     | Cost  | Availability |
| Inferno Pistol            | Pistol | 10m   | S/–/–  | 2d10+4 E  | 12  | 3    | Full  | —                        | 2.5 kg | 7,500 | Very Rare    |
| Meltagun                  | Basic  | 20m   | S/–/–  | 2d10+4 E  | 12  | 5    | 2Full | —                        | 8 kg   | 4,000 | Rare         |
|                           |        |       |        |           |     |      |       |                          |        |       |              |
| Plasma Weapons            |        |       |        |           |     |      |       |                          |        |       |              |
| Name                      | Class  | Range | RoF    | Dam       | Pen | Clip | Rld   | Special                  | Wt     | Cost  | Availability |
| Plasma Pistol             | Pistol | 30m   | S/–/–  | 1d10+6 E  | 6   | 10   | 4Full | Recharge, Overheats      | 4 kg   | 4,000 | Very Rare    |
| Plasma Gun                | Basic  | 90m   | S/2/–  | 1d10+6 E  | 6   | 20   | 8Full | Recharge,Overheats       | 11 kg  | 3,000 | Very Rare    |

# **LAS WEAPONS**

Laser or "las" weapons are the most numerous weapons found in the Imperium. Based on reliable technology, they are cheap to manufacture and easy to maintain. Las weapons work by emitting short, sharp pulses of laser energy emitted from high-storage fast-discharge capacitors, with a flash of light and a distinctive snap like the cracking of a whip as the trigger is pulled. To use the various classes of las weapons you must have the Pistol Training (Las), Basic Weapon Training (Las) or Heavy Weapon Training (Las) talents.

# **Laspistol**

The laspistol is a light, compact and reliable weapon, common throughout the Imperium. Designs vary widely and can range from elaborate heirloom devices

inscribed with ornate carvings and gold filigree, to simplistic but brutally robust weapons used by gangs and criminals.

# **Las Carbine**

A lighter, cut down version of the lasgun, the las carbine has fewer shots and

a shorter range but is easier to carry and aim, often coming with a folding stock. Las carbines can be fired in one hand with only a –10 penalty rather than the normal –20 for basic weapons.

Produced in a multitude of different styles and patterns, the lasgun can be found on almost every world of the Imperium, where its robust design and dependability make it a favoured weapon of both the Emperor's faithful and many of their foes.

| Table 5–7: Ranged Weapons (cont)                                                                          |        |       |       |                |     |      |       |                                     |        |       |              |
|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------|-------|-------|----------------|-----|------|-------|-------------------------------------|--------|-------|--------------|
| Flame WeaponsName                                                                                     | Class  | Range | RoF   | Dam            | Pen | Clip | Rld   | Special                             | Wt     | Cost  | Availability |
| Hand Flamer                                                                                               | Pistol | 10m   |       | S/–/– 1d10+4 E | 2   | 2    | 2Full | Flame                               | 3.5 kg | 200   | Rare         |
| Flamer                                                                                                    | Basic  | 20m   |       | S/–/– 1d10+4 E | 3   | 3    | 2Full | Flame                               | 6 kg   | 300   | Scarce       |
| Primitive Weapons                                                                                         |        |       |       |                |     |      |       |                                     |        |       |              |
| Name                                                                                                      | Class  | Range | RoF   | Dam            | Pen | Clip | Rld   | Special                             | Wt     | Cost  | Availability |
| Bolas                                                                                                     | Thrown | 10m   | S/–/– | —              | 0   | 1    | —     | Primitive, Snare,Inaccurate     | 1.5 kg | 10    | Average      |
| Hand Bow                                                                                                  | Pistol | 15m   | S/–/– | 1d10 R         | 0   | 1    | Full  | Primitive                           | 1 kg   | 200   | Rare         |
| Flintlock Pistol                                                                                          | Pistol | 15m   | S/–/– | 1d10+2 I       | 0   | 1    | 3Full | Primitive, UnreliableInaccurate | 4 kg   | 10    | Common       |
| Musket                                                                                                    | Basic  | 30m   | S/–/– | 1d10+2 I       | 0   | 1    | 5Full | Primitive, UnreliableInaccurate | 7 kg   | 30    | Common       |
| Bow                                                                                                       | Basic  | 30m   | S/–/– | 1d10 R         | 0   | 1    | Half  | Primitive,Reliable              | 2 kg   | 10    | Common       |
| Sling                                                                                                     | Basic  | 15m   | S/–/– | 1d10–2 I       | 0   | 1    | Full  | Primitive                           | 0.5 kg | 10    | Plentiful    |
| Crossbow                                                                                                  | Basic  | 30m   | S/–/– | 1d10 R         | 0   | 1    | 2Full | Primitive                           | 3 kg   | 10    | Common       |
| Launchers                                                                                                 |        |       |       |                |     |      |       |                                     |        |       |              |
| Name                                                                                                      | Class  | Range | RoF   | Dam            | Pen | Clip | Rld   | Special                             | Wt     | Cost  | Availability |
| Grenade Launcher                                                                                          | Basic  | 60m   | S/–/– | *              | *   | 6    | Full  | *                                   | 9 kg   | 500   | Scarce       |
| RPG Launcher                                                                                              | Heavy  | 120m  | S/–/– | *              | *   | 1    | Full  | *                                   | 15 kg  | 1,200 | Rare         |
| *Damage, armor Piercing and Special Qualities are determined by the ammunition (i.e. the grenade) fired. |        |       |       |                |     |      |       |                                     |        |       |              |
| Grenades                                                                                                  |        |       |       |                |     |      |       |                                     |        |       |              |
| Name                                                                                                      | Class  | Range |       | Dam            | Pen |      |       | Special                             | Wt     | Cost  | Availability |

| Thrown | SB×3  |       | 2d10 X   | 0   |      |       | Blast (4)        | 0.5 kg | 10    | Common       |
|--------|-------|-------|----------|-----|------|-------|------------------|--------|-------|--------------|
| Thrown | SB×3  |       | 2d10+4 X | 6   |      |       | —                | 0.5 kg | 50    | Rare         |
| Thrown | SB×3  |       | —        | 0   |      |       | Smoke            | 0.5 kg | 25    | Scarce       |
| Thrown | SB×3  |       | Special  | 0   |      |       | —                | 0.5 kg | 60    | Scarce       |
| Thrown | SB×3  |       | Special  | 0   |      |       | —                | 0.5 kg | 40    | Rare         |
| Thrown | SB×3  |       | 1d10+3 E | 6   |      |       | Blast (3)        | 0.5 kg | 5     | Plentiful    |
|        |       |       |          |     |      |       |                  |        |       |              |
|        |       |       |          |     |      |       |                  |        |       |              |
| Class  | Range | RoF   | Dam      | Pen | Clip | Rld   | Special          | Wt     | Cost  | Availability |
| Pistol | 30m   | S/–/– | 1d10 R   | 0   | 6    | Full  | Accurate, Toxic  | 1.5 kg | 1,250 | Very Rare    |
| Pistol | 30m   | S/–/– | —        | 0   | 1    | Full  | Snare            | 3.5 kg | 1,200 | Rare         |
| Basic  | 180m  | S/–/– | 1d10 R   | 0   | 6    | 2Full | Accurate, Toxic  | 2 kg   | 1,000 | Very Rare    |
| Basic  | 50m   | S/–/– | —        | 0   | 1    | Full  | Blast (5), Snare | 8 kg   | 1,800 | Rare         |
|        |       |       |          |     |      |       |                  |        |       |              |

# **Long Las**

Favoured by snipers, the long las is a specially modified version of the lasgun constructed for added range and accuracy. As its name implies, a long las also has a much longer barrel than a lasgun, sometimes being up to twice the length, making it unwieldy in close quarters.

# **Man Portable Lascannon**

Built for war, lascannons use huge power packs that provide enough energy to punch holes in the thickest armor even at very long ranges. Lascannons also require separate power packs, which is why they are often crewed by two or more people.

# **Recharging Power Packs**

A reason for the large number of las weapons in the Imperium is the relative abundance of ammunition. Las power packs can be charged in the field from most power sources. Characters may make a Tech-Use Test to successfully charge any power pack if there is a suitable power source available. The time the pack takes to charge is determined by the power output of the source and is ultimately up to the GM, but typically takes several hours. Alternatively, power packs may be charged by placing them in an open flame. This however takes at least a day and permanently reduces the clip size by half (this only occurs the first time it is charged in this way) as well as removing a las weapon's Reliable special quality, or giving it the Unreliable special quality if it was not Reliable to start with. Each time a pack is recharged in this way there is a 30% chance it will be permanently rendered useless.

# Solid Proj e ctile Weap ons **SOLID PROJECTILE WEAPONS**

Solid projectile weapons, or slug-throwers, are almost as plentiful in the Imperium as las weapons. Popular with Imperial servants and renegades alike, they are prized for their ease of manufacture and versatility, not to mention the satisfying sound they make when fired. No other class of weapon boasts as many varieties. Slug-throwers can offer a weapon for all occasions. To use the various classes of SP weapons you must have the Pistol Training (SP), Basic Weapon Training (SP) or Heavy Weapon Training (SP) talents.

# **Autopistol**

Compact and rapid-firing, autopistols are favourites of gangers and outlaws.

# **Stub Revolver**

Based on an ancient and welltested design, the stub revolver is an ideal backup weapon.

# **Stub Automatic**

Just as common as the revolver variant, the stub automatic allows for a greater rate of fire and clip capacity, though at the cost of reliability.

# **Hand Cannon**

A variant of the stub revolver, the huge hand cannon fires enormous rounds designed to not only take down a target but make a loud and intimidating noise when

doing so. These weapons produce ferocious recoil, and unless fired two-handed, impose a –10 penalty to Ballistic Skill Tests.

# **Autogun**

Cheap and easy to produce on even the lowest-tech planets, autoguns are a staple weapon across the Im-

perium. Durable, rugged and easily stocked with readily available ammunition, these weapons are a common sight especially in the rougher parts of the galaxy.

# **Hunting Rifle**

Hunting rifles can be found in the hands of a frontier hunter, or carried by a wealthy sportsman in the pursuit of prey. Highly accurate in the arms of a trained user, even at extreme long ranges, a hunting rifle can bring down its target be it man or beast.

# **Heavy Stubber**

A mainstay support weapon on lower-tech planets, and also popular with outlaws and hive gangers, the heavy stubber is ideal for fighting off large numbers of enemies or even lightly armored vehicles. Heavy stubbers can also be used with an ammunition drum (rather than belt fed), changing its clip size to 40 and increasing is cost by 100 Thrones but decreasing its reload time to a single Full Action.

# **Shotgun**

Even the lowest-tech factories can produce these weapons, making them a common sight in the galaxy. Favoured for urban and shipboard combat, where their short-range stopping power comes into play, shotguns have found their way into the arsenal of many Imperial organisations.

# **Pump-Action Shotgun**

Favoured by enforcers, the pump-action shotgun has all the strengths of its double-barrelled cousin with the added benefits of increased clip capacity. There are also few things as distinctive (and frightening) as the sound of a pump-action shotgun chambering a shell.

# **Combat Shotgun**

These automatic shotguns, often fed from a drum magazine, are designed purely for warfare and are even deadlier than the normal shotgun. In addition to their short-range destructive power, they hammer out an intimidating racket when being fired.

# Bolt Weap ons **BOLT WEAPONS**

If there is one weapon type that defines the Imperium, it is the bolter. No other weapon combines high technology levels with deliberate brutality, and no other race would consider making it but mankind. Bolter weapons fire rounds of self-propelled massreactive shells called bolts, set to explode just after penetration. Overall they are superb, if temperamental, devices requiring skilled maintenance using the correct rituals and blessings. Furthermore, these are all very rare weapons, available only to the lucky or wellconnected few. Many are centuries old, handed down from veteran to successor, and some have long legends attached to them of their great lineage. It would be a mistake to confuse these "civilian" issue weapons with those of the Adeptus Astartes.

Bolter ammunition is expensive and difficult to manufacture, and only the elite of the Imperium has ready access to it. The standard bolter round is .75 calibre and has a super-dense metallic core with a diamantine tip. To use the various classes of bolt weapons you must have the Pistol Training (Bolt), Basic Weapon Training (Bolt) or Heavy Weapon Training (Bolt) talents.

# **Bolt Pistol**

Carrying a bolt pistol is a sign of high status in the Imperium, one that only a minority can afford due to the high cost of maintenance and ammunition. However, few can argue with their

destructive power in combat and after experiencing their potent capabilities, a man might beggar himself to own one.

# **Boltgun**

Boltguns are known for the unique roar they make when fired, as the propellant in their shells ignite, followed shortly by the explosive detonation

as they hit their target. It is an experience only slightly less satisfying than seeing the results of such a weapon in action.

# **Heavy Bolter**

A larger support version of the boltgun, the heavy bolter is seldom seen outside military organisations. It uses a much larger version of the standard bolt shell, with more propellant for greater distance and stopping power, which also makes it more deadly to armored vehicles.

# Me lta Weap ons **MELTA WEAPONS**

Melta weapons (also known as cookers or melters) are a specialist type of weapon that have short ranges but are devastatingly powerful. Most work by combining highly pressurised gases into an unstable sub-molecular thermal state, which is fired out in an intense blast of heat that can turn even tank armor into molten slag. Targets are vaporised within seconds, usually accompanied by a distinctive hissing sound as the beam boils away the water vapour in the air. To use the various classes of melta weapons you must have the Pistol Training (Melta), Basic Weapon Training (Melta), or Heavy Weapon Training (Melta) talents.

# **Inferno Pistol**

The technology behind the inferno pistol is hard to reproduce, making these weapons exceptionally rare and expensive. Possessing an inferno pistol is a sign of status,

and usually only powerful and influential individuals have the honour of owning one of these valuable relics.

# **Meltagun**

Meltaguns are the most common form of melta weapon, coveted by soldiers for their massive close-range destructive power. There are also few things as good at cutting through armor than a meltagun, and they are often pressed into service for breaching bulkheads. As an alternative to using a meltagun with attached canisters, you may instead have a backpack and feed line, which doubles the clip size, adds 6 kg to the weight and increases the cost by 100 Thrones.

# Plasm a Weap ons **PLASMA WEAPONS**

Plasma weapons represent an almost lost art for the Imperium. The secrets of their manufacture are now known to but a handful of the inner circle of the Adeptus Mechanicus Magos Munitorum and their tech-adept artisans. They function by using sturdy flasks of hydrogen suspended in a photonic state to provide the fuel needed for the plasma reaction. This photohydrogen fuel core gives off tremendous heat when fired and the firer often must wait for the core to cool and recharge between shots. To use the various classes of plasma weapons you must have the Pistol Training (Plasma), Basic Weapon Training (Plasma) or Heavy Weapon Training (Plasma) talents.

# **Plasma Pistol**

Few pistols are deadlier than the plasma pistol, and those willing to take the risk of using one possess a weapon capable of taking down almost any foe at close range.

# **Plasma Gun**

An uncommon weapon, even in the ranks of the Imperial Guard or illustrious Space Marine forces, most extant plasma guns are hundreds if not thousands of years old. However, as a testament to their design, they remain as deadly today as they were on the day of their fabrication. As an alternative to using a plasma gun with attached plasma flasks, you may instead have a backpack and feed line, which doubles the clip size, adds 6 kg to the weight and increases the cost by 100 Thrones.

# Flame Weapons

Flame weapons all operate in much the same manner by firing gouts of flame at the target. They use a fuel generically referred to as promethium, though it can also consist of homemade concoctions or other chemical brews depending on the local technology level. Once produced, the intense jet that spurts from the barrel creates a torrent of liquid fire, which spreads out in an inferno that burns even on water. Once set ablaze, enemies are hard-pressed to put out the fire. To use the various classes of flame weapons you must have the Pistol Training (Flame), Basic Weapon Training (Flame) or Heavy Weapon Training (Flame) talents.

# **Hand Flamer**

Flame pistols or hand flamers are designed for personal combat at close range where their very short range and poor accuracy are not an issue.

# **Flamer**

Flamers are terrifying and indiscriminate weapons ideal for attacking enemies in cover or confined spaces. As an alternative to using a flamer with an underslung canister, you may instead have a backpack and fuel hose, which doubles the clip size, adds 6 kg to the weight and adds 100 Thrones to the cost.

Primitive Weap ons

Heavy Weapon Training (Primitive) talents.

**PRIMITIVE WEAPONS**

Even in the 41st Millennium there is a call for low-tech weapons, found on feral, undeveloped planets or post-apocalyptic environments where technology has collapsed, or on vicious hive worlds that see combat take on all forms. Though these weapons may be hopelessly outdated by more advanced firearms, in the hands of a skilled user they can be just as deadly. To use the various classes of primitive weapons you must have the Thrown Weapon Training (Primitive), Pistol Training (Primitive), Basic Weapon Training (Primitive) or

These crude devices can only fire once before reloading, are prone to failure, and only the most low-tech savage or desperate renegade would generally fight with one. When they do strike, however, they are deadly against unarmored foes.

# **Bow**

**Sling**

**Musket**

Bows have changed little through their many countless centuries of usage, and can be found across the galaxy in a variety of designs and constructions. Even on high-tech worlds, these weapons, like hand bows, are a favourite amongst assassins and gangers for their silence and reliability.

# **Bolas**

Bolas are normally non-lethal and as such can be seen employed by bounty hunters or local law

enforcement members, where the swirling balls (some styles use up to eight of these dense objects) can entangle a target with heavy cords or wire.

# **Hand Bow**

This weapon offers the hitting power of a crossbow but in a pistol grip, suitable for one-handed operation but at shorter ranges. The ease at

which they can be broken down and concealed, as well as their silent operation, makes them a favoured weapon of assassins.

# **Flintlock Pistol**

These primitive blackpowder weapons can take many forms, from finely crafted pistols constructed for the nobles of low-tech worlds, to simple pipe and powder affairs used by underhive scum.

grenade but retain the weapon's Range.

Slings are a difficult weapon to master, but can be used to throw anything from rocks picked off the ground, to specialised metallic balls, to even grenades. When using a sling to throw grenades, replace the sling's Damage with the effects of the

# **Crossbow**

Crossbows are less common than bows as they require more advanced mechanical fittings, but they are equally as deadly.

# **LAUNCHERS AND GRENADES**

In a galaxy raked by war and disorder there is a high demand for extremely destructive ordnance. To that end the forge worlds of the Imperium send out a steady stream of explosives, grenades and similar weaponry, some of which may find its way into the hands of Acolytes and their foes. To use the various classes of launchers you must have the Pistol Training (Launcher), Basic Weapon Training (Launcher) or Heavy Weapon Training (Launcher) talents. Setting explosives requires the Demolition skill (see **Chapter III: Skills, [page 101](#page-101-0)**)

# **Throwing Grenades**

Throwing grenades requires no special training or Talents and is resolved using a Ballistic Skill Test just as if the character was firing a weapon, including any modifiers for range, visibility and the like.

# **Grenade Launcher**

The standard grenade launcher uses compressed gas charges to launch a variety of grenade types at the enemy. These shots can be arced high into the air as suppressive fire at unseen targets as well as being used directly against foes.

# **Rocket Propelled Grenade (RPG) Launcher**

More powerful than a standard grenade launcher, an RPG launcher is capable of accurately hitting a target hundreds of metres away.

# **Grenades**

All of the grenades listed here can either be thrown by hand or used in a grenade launcher or RPG launcher.

# **Frag**

These grenades use an explosive charge and special fillers of shrapnel fragments. Imperial frag grenades are roughly the size of a clenched fist and covered with a heavily notched shell, both to increase the shrapnel produced and provide a more secure grip for throwing.

Krak grenades have powerful concentrated explosives designed to punch holes in armored targets such as vehicles or bunkers. While stronger than frag grenades, krak detonations do not produce a Blast effect and their more focused explosion makes them impractical for use against people.

# **Blind**

Blind grenades explode with a burst of dense smoke, IR bafflers and broadband EMspectrum chaff, all of which is designed to block detection through the cloud. Sensors and vision that would pierce normal smoke cannot see through haze created by a blind grenade. In calm conditions the cloud of smoke is roughly 3m wide and 2m tall and lasts 3 Rounds. In high winds this may be reduced.

# **Blindness**

Blind characters are bereft of vision and consequently they have a much harder time surviving. Blind characters automatically fail all Ballistic Skill Tests and any other test that involves vision. Such characters take a –30 penalty to all Weapon Skill, Dodge and Parry tests. Finally, blind characters move at half their normal rates when in unfamiliar environments as they must feel around to make their way. Should they attempt to move faster, they must succeed on a Difficult (–10) Agility Test or fall to ground at the end of their Movement.

# **Hallucinogen**

These kinds of grenades induce a variety of short-lived psychological states and delusions. Anyone within 10 metres of a detonating hallucinogen grenade must succeed on a Difficult (–10) Toughness Test or be overcome with delusions and hallucinations

for 1d10 Rounds. Whilst affected, on the character's Turn, roll d100. On a 50 or less, the character may act normally. On a 51–75, the character runs around screaming in response to some perceived weirdness. On a 76 or higher, the character attacks the closest creature to him, regardless of friend or foe, using whatever weapons he has.

**Optional Rule:** When the character is first affected by a hallucination grenade, you can roll on **Table 5–8: Hallucinogen Effects, page 137** to see how the character behaves for the next 1d10 Rounds.

## **Fire Bomb**

A relatively primitive grenade, the fire bomb is normally a breakable canister of flammable liquid with a fuse made from cloth or other material that the liquid can soak into. Once the fuse is set aflame, the bomb is hurled at the enemy; the canister breaks open on impact to release the now burning liquid. A target struck by a fire bomb must make an Agility Test or catch on fire (see **Chapter VII: Playing the Game, [page 210](#page-210-0)**).

# **Photon Flash**

Photon flash grenades detonate like a small star, blinding anyone nearby and bright enough to overload cheap or

Table 5–8: Hallucinogen Effects

#### primitive vision protection systems. Anyone within 15 metres of a photo flash grenade when it detonates must succeed on a Toughness Test or be blinded for 1d5 Rounds.

# **Explosive Mishaps**

Whenever a jam results from throwing a grenade or firing a grenade, something unfortunate has happened. Roll on the table below to find out the results.

#### **Roll Result**

- 1–5 **Dud.** The explosive or round fails to explode and, in the case of grenade launchers, the weapon must be reloaded before it can fire.
- 6–8 **"It might be ok…"** Nothing happens. Roll again on this table next round.
- 9–0 **BOOM!** The round or explosive detonates immediately. Centre the effect on the character. If this was the result of firing a grenade launcher, the grenade detonates in the barrel, having its normal effect as well as destroying the weapon.
- **Roll Effect** 01–10 **Bugsbugsbugsbugs!** The character drops to the floor, flailing and screaming as he tries to claw off imaginary insects. The character counts as being Stunned.
- 11–20 **My hands…!** The character believes his hands have turned into slimy tentacles, or perhaps the flesh has begun to strip off the bone in bloody lumps. Regardless of the particulars, the character drops everything he is carrying and spends the duration staring at his hands and screaming. The character counts as being Stunned.
- 21–30 **They're coming through the walls!** The character sees gruesome aliens bursting through the walls/ceiling/ floor/bushes and opens fire. The character must spend each Turn firing at a random piece of terrain within his line of sight. Any creatures caught in the line of fire are subject to attacks as normal. Each round, choose a new target at random (usually by assigning a number to a direction and rolling 1d10 to see where the character shoots—a 1 is at the ground and a 10 is in the air).
- 31–40 **Nobody can see me!** The character believes he is invisible and wanders aimlessly, pulling faces at those around him. He waddles about in random directions each round, using a Full Action to move. The character retains his Reactions.
- 41–50 **I can fly!** The sky looks so big and inviting, the character flaps his arms trying to imitate a ptera-squirrel. He may do nothing but jump up and down on the spot. If he is standing above ground level, he may throw himself off in a random direction, with the usual consequences for falling—appalling damage or death being the most usual outcomes.
- 51–60 **They've got it in for me…** The character is overcome with paranoia, believing even his own comrades are out to get him. On the character's Turn, he must move to a position of cover, getting out of line of sight from any other characters. He remains hidden until the effect ends.
- 61–70 **They got me, mother…** The character believes that the gas is toxic and collapses to the floor as if dead—he counts as being helpless. Any other character who sees him "die" must pass an Intelligence Test or they think the character is dead too.
- 71–80 **I'll take you all on!** The character is filled with a burning rage and a desire for violence. The character enters a Frenzy (see **[page 116](#page-116-0)**) and attacks the closest opponent.
- 81–90 **I'm only little!** The character believes he has shrunk to half his normal size, and everything else is big and frightening now. All other characters count as having a Fear Rating of 3 to the character.
- 91–00 **The worms!** The character desperately tries to remove a massive fanged worm he thinks is slowly winding its way up and around his leg. If holding a gun, he shoots himself with it, or if not, he hits himself in the leg with whatever melee weapon he is holding. If the character is currently holding no weapon whatsoever, he draws a random weapon from those he carries and attacks himself with it. Randomly determine which leg the character believes to be trapped by the worm. The attack hits automatically and deals normal damage.

Many weapons are not only uncommon in the Imperium, but also unimaginable to most of its citizens. These weapons are always expensive and beyond the reach of all but the elite or most resourceful. Because these weapons are so specialised, a character must have a Talent for each individual exotic weapon he wishes to use. For example, to use a needle pistol a character would need Exotic Weapon Training (Needle Pistol).

# **Needle Pistol**

Needle pistols use a low-power laser beam to propel small slivers of crystalline coated in viral toxins. Enemies wounded by them are almost instantly

paralysed or dead within moments. As they are virtually silent and have no muzzle flash, needle weapons are ideal for assassins.

# **Web Pistol**

Web pistols fire masses of filaments, which expand in the air to form a web of sticky, near-unbreakable material. Targets are quickly entangled in a painful embrace; if they attempt to struggle the filaments constrict even

more, further entrapping them. In addition to the normal effects of Snare weapons, each time an ensnared character fails a Strength or Agility Test to escape he imposes a cumulative –10 penalty on future tests. Should this exceed –30, the character takes 1d5+1 Damage for each future failed test. The webbing breaks down on its own and flakes away after 1d10 Rounds.

# **Needle Rifle**

Prized by snipers, the needle rifle offers the perfect combination of range, stealth and deadliness. The only argument against these exquisite weapons is that they are next to useless against heavily armored targets.

# **Webber**

The most commonly used web weapon, it is often called into play to subdue those violating the Emperor's Law. They have a longer range and

each shot can cover a small group of people, incapacitating entire crowds when used in large numbers. The webbing breaks down on its own and flakes away after 1d5 hours.

# **EXOTIC WEAPONS** **MELEE WEAPONS**

Close combat weapons are a common sight throughout the galaxy, and in many places it would be unthinkable to venture without at least one such weapon on your person. Depending on the planet's level of technology (and the wealth of the user), these can range from simple metal blades to high-tech weapons of plastic or exotic metals and can include swords, axes, pole arms, clubs, mauls, bludgeons and other simple devices. To use melee weapons you must have the Melee Weapon Training (Primitive) talent to use them effectively in close combat and the Thrown Weapon Training (Primitive) talent for ranged attacks.

# **Axe**

An axe sports a brutal blade, used both as a tool and weapon. While they generally do not have the reach of a sword and lack its ability to parry away blows, a strike from an axe will generally create a more lethal effect when it lands, ripping apart flesh and shattering bone with ease.

# **Brass Knuckles**

In their most basic form, simple knuckle dusters worn around the foremost fingers can turn a simple punch into a powerful hit, enough to break bones.

# **Club**

Clubs, mauls and bludgeons are amongst the most primitive melee weapons, relying on weight and strength to cave in a foe's skull.

# **Flail**

Flails consist of one or more heavy spiked balls attached to the weapon's pole (with lengths of chain or metal rods), and while difficult to wield, they are capable of inflicting terrible wounds.

# **Great Weapon**

Most melee weapons can also be found in larger and heavier versions, usable only with two hands. Great weapons of this kind (such as huge axes, giant hammers, double-handed swords, and so on, including huge clubs) are massive, brutal weapons that can inflict serious damage with each blow.

# Table 5-9: Melee Weapons

#### **Primitive Weapons**

| Name                             | Class          | Range  | Dam                | Pen    | Special                        | Wt               | Cost       | Availability   |
|----------------------------------|----------------|--------|--------------------|--------|--------------------------------|------------------|------------|----------------|
| Axe                              | Melee          | —      | 1d10+1 R           | 0      | Primitive, Unbalanced          | 4 kg             | 20         | Average        |
| Brass Knuckles                   | Melee          | —      | 1d5–1 I            | 0      | Primitive                      | 0.5 kg           | 5          | Plentiful      |
| Club                             | Melee          | —      | 1d10 I             | 0      | Primitive                      | 2 kg             | 5          | Abundant       |
| Flail†                           | Melee          | —      | 1d10+2 I           | 0      | Flexible, Primitive            | 4 kg             | 20         | Scarce         |
| Great Weapon†                    | Melee          | —      | 2d10 R             | 2      | Primitive, Unwieldy            | 7 kg             | 70         | Scarce         |
| Hammer                           | Melee          | —      | 1d10+1 I           | 0      | Primitive, Unbalanced          | 4 kg             | 10         | Common         |
| Improvised                       | Melee          | —      | 1d10–2 I           | 0      | Primitive, Unbalanced          | —                | —          | —              |
| Knife                            | Melee, Thrown  | 3m     | 1d5 R              | 0      | Primitive                      | 0.5 kg           | 5          | Abundant       |
| Throwing Star/Knife              | Thrown         | 5m     | 1d5 R              | 0      | Primitive                      | 0.5 kg           | 5          | Plentiful      |
| Shield                           | Melee          | —      | 1d5 I              | 0      | Defensive, Primitive           | 3 kg             | 25         | Average        |
| Spear†                           | Melee, Thrown  | 10m    | 1d10 R             | 0      | Primitive                      | 3 kg             | 15         | Common         |
| Sword                            | Melee          | —      | 1d10 R             | 0      | Balanced, Primitive            | 3 kg             | 15         | Common         |
| Staff†                           | Melee          | —      | 1d10 I             | 0      | Balanced, Primitive            | 3 kg             | 10         | Plentiful      |
|                                  |                |        |                    |        |                                |                  |            |                |
|                                  |                |        |                    |        |                                |                  |            |                |
| Chain Weapons                    |                |        |                    |        |                                |                  |            |                |
| Name                             | Class          | Range  | Dam                | Pen    | Special                        | Wt               | Cost       | Availability   |
| Chainsword                       | Melee          | —      | 1d10+2 R           | 2      | Balanced, Tearing              | 6 kg             | 275        | Rare           |
| Chain Axe                        | Melee          | —      | 1d10+4 R           | 2      | Tearing                        | 13 kg            | 450        | Very Rare  |
|                                  |                |        |                    |        |                                |                  |            |                |
|                                  |                |        |                    |        |                                |                  |            |                |
| Power WeaponsName            | Class          | Range  | Dam                | Pen    | Special                        | Wt               | Cost       | Availability   |
| Power Blade                      | Melee          | —      | 1d10+3 E           | 6      | Power Field                    | 1.5 kg           | 1,750      | Very Rare  |
| Power Sword                      | Melee          | —      | 1d10+5 E           | 6      | Balanced, Power Field          | 3.5 kg           | 2,500      | Very Rare  |
|                                  |                |        |                    |        |                                |                  |            |                |
|                                  |                |        |                    |        |                                |                  |            |                |
| Shock Weapons                    |                |        |                    |        |                                |                  |            |                |
| Name                             | Class          | Range  | Dam                | Pen    | Special                        | Wt               | Cost       | Availability   |
| Shock MaulElectro-Flail† | MeleeMelee | —— | 1d10 I1d10+2 I | 00     | ShockingFlexible, Shocking | 2.5 kg4.5 kg | 150375 | ScarceRare |

† *This weapon requires two hands to use.*

**Note: Characters using melee weapons add their SB to the Damage they inflict.**

# **Hammer**

Hammers are heavier versions of the regular hand tool, using a large weighted end to inflict a harder and deadlier blow. Many Imperial servants favour the hammer as an enduring symbol of the Emperor's righteous justice.

#### **Improvised**

Improvised weapons can take many forms, but are generally any handy weighted object such as table legs, severed limbs or artillery shell casings. Hitting someone with the butt of a basic ranged weapon (such as a lasgun or boltgun) counts as an improvised weapon.

# **Knife**

The knife is the ubiquitous back-up weapon for warriors all across the Imperium, be they lowly hive scum or the elite soldiers of a planetary governor. Some, such as the psykana mercy blade, are designed for a specific purpose, whilst others are more generic in nature.

# **Throwing Knife/Star**

Throwing knives and stars are designed purely to be thrown; carefully crafted, their sharp cutting edges can inflict serious wounds.

# **Shield**

Shields are a useful protective device, either in conjunction with armor or on their own. They can be made from a variety of materials, ranging from improvised wooden or plastic sheets to advanced metal or armorplas plates. Sizes can range from light bucklers to huge full-body shields as large as a man. As they are intended for defence, attacking with a shield imposes a –20 penalty.

# **Spear**

Common on feral and medieval worlds, spears can equally be found in the hands of hunters as well as warriors.

# **Sword**

Swords can range from short dagger-like models to longer elaborate duelling blades. The nature of the blade (single or double-edged, curved or straight, flexible or stiff, cutting or stabbing, and so on) varies with the intent of the sword and the taste of its user.

# **Staff**

Longer basic weapons use a staff of wood or other material, with the longer reach useful for hitting an enemy before he can strike. The staff is just that, and is a common sight especially among pilgrims trekking throughout the galaxy to retrace the steps of the saints.

# Chain Weapons

Chain weapons are popular amongst most warriors in the 41st Millennium, as most races and planets have the basic technology to produce these brutal weapons. They all have fast-moving chains of serrated metallic teeth running across what would normally be the weapon's bladed edge. Even the slightest hit can rip open flesh, and solid strikes can cut through armor. Most are loud and all are visibly dangerous, and the sight of one can demoralise even the most fanatical opponent. To use chain weapons you must have the Melee Weapon Training (Chain) talent.

# **Chainsword**

Chainswords are roughly sword-like in shape as the name suggests, with a large flat housing containing the chain. Generally only the forward curved section is open, and is thrust at the enemy where the spinning chain teeth can bite into esh and bone.

# **Chain Axe**

Chain axes are heavy, brutal weapons that deliver hideous damage with each blow. Like a regular axe, these can have one edge or be two-sided. Each open edge contains its own chain loop, meaning that the double-sided version can still operate if one side is fouled.

# Power Weapons

Power weapons work by projecting a disruptive energy field along the length of a blade or head of a weapon, allowing it to slice through most armor as well as limbs. Many of these weapons conceal their true nature via subtle power packs and energy projection veins, appearing as a normal weapon until activated when crackles of lightning run across the blade. Most can function as a simple weapon when powered down, a useful ability should their energy source run dry or become dangerous to use. To use power weapons you must have the Melee Weapon Training (Power) talent. If not activated, the weapon counts as a normal weapon and characters with the appropriate Melee Weapon Training (Primitive) talent can use it without penalty.

# **Power Blade**

Power blades are dagger-sized weapons made infinitely more dangerous than their size would suggest by the addition of a power field. They are also easily concealed, making them popular with those who prefer to appear unarmed.

# **Power Sword**

Power swords are rare and valuable weapons within the Imperium, often being passed down through generations as valued family heirlooms. In addition to being a potent status symbol, a power sword is also utterly deadly in the hands of a skilled swordsman.

# **SHOCK WEAPONS**

Shock weapons are designed to be generally non-lethal, attacking the subject with incapacitating force through electrical shocks released on impact. As shock weapons have little or no destructive impact on flesh other than burn marks, they are useful for crowd control and "encouraging" workers such as shipboard press gangs or other forced labour. To use shock weapons you must have the Melee Weapon Training (Shock) talent.

# **Shock Maul**

Shock mauls are mostly commonly found in the hands of the Adeptus Arbites and enforcer squads on countless worlds to enforce the Emperor's Law. While they are intended for crowd control and riot suppression in the hands of an enthusiastic user they can also be deadly combat weapons.

# **Electro-Flail**

Electro-flails are groups of tendril-like lashes, attached to a short staff or handle. These flails have a short reach, but as they strike in devastating masses of hits they can be extraordinarily effective at incapacitating a foe.

# Shock Weapons Weapon Upgrades

Weapons can be given upgrades to enhance their performance. Which weapons and how many upgrades can be applied are noted in the upgrade descriptions. A character with the Trade (armorer) skill may upgrade weapons by making a successful test.

The cost and availability of each upgrade refers to the component and not the cost of attaching it, which characters must pay for separately. For weapons purchased with upgrades already attached, simply add the cost of the upgrade to that of the weapon. This does not change the availability of the weapon. Upgrades also modify a weapon's weight as noted below.

| Table 5-10: Weapons Upgrades |         |      |              |  |
|------------------------------|---------|------|--------------|--|
| Name                         | Weight  | Cost | Availability |  |
| Compact                      | ×1/2    | 50   | Average      |  |
| Exterminator                 | +1 kg   | 35   | Common       |  |
| Extra Grip                   | ×1/3    | 25   | Plentiful    |  |
| Fire Selector                | +0.5 kg | 25   | Scarce       |  |
| Melee Attachment             | +2 kg   | 25   | Plentiful    |  |
| Mono                         | 0       | 40   | Scarce       |  |
| Overcharge Pack              | +0.5 kg | 15   | Common       |  |
| Red-Dot Laser Sight          | +0.5 kg | 50   | Scarce       |  |
| Silencer                     | +0.5 kg | 10   | Plentiful    |  |
| Telescopic Sight             | +1 kg   | 35   | Average      |  |

# **Compact**

Compact weapons are smaller versions of pistol and basic weapons that are favoured by those that prefer concealment over stopping power. This upgrade halves the weight of the weapon but also halves its clip size and range as well as reducing its Damage by 1.

**Upgrades:** Any Pistol or Basic Las, Solid Projectile, Flame, Bolt or Plasma weapon.

# **Exterminator**

Many of the more zealous religious warriors of the Imperium use an exterminator cartridge on their regular weapons. This small device contains a small one-shot flamer weapon that shoots out a sheet of fire. Rather than firing the weapon as normal, the shooter may use the exterminator cartridge, working out the effects as if he was armed with a amer. Exterminators are one-shot weapons and must be replaced once used.

**Upgrades:** Any weapon.

# **Extra Grip**

Also known as a pistol grip, this allows the weapon to be wielded in one hand without the usual –20 penalty. However, it becomes more difficult to aim accurately and its Range is halved.

**Upgrades:** Any Basic ranged weapon.

# **Fire Selector**

For weapons that can use differing ammunition rounds, a shot selector can be fitted for ease of switching from one type to another. A weapon with a fire selector can have up to three different clips added. At the start of the shooter's Turn, he can use his fire selector to choose which clip he wishes to draw ammo from that round.

**Upgrades:** (Bolt) and (SP) Pistols or (SP) and (Bolt) Basic Weapons.

# **Melee Attachment**

Bayonets and chain blades and other long-bladed combat attachments can be fitted to most ranged weapons, making them more useful in assaults. A weapon with a melee attachment counts as a spear in close combat.

**Upgrades:** Any Basic ranged weapon can have melee attachments.

# **Mono**

Mono weapons have specially fashioned blades with superfine edges, which can easily cut through armor and never lose their edge. Mono weapons no longer count as Primitive and add a +2 bonus to their Penetration.

**Upgrades:** Any close combat weapon.

# **Overcharge Pack**

This is an enhanced power pack for a las weapon increasing the strength of its fire. An overcharge pack adds 1 to the weapon's Damage. Unfortunately the increased output of damage reduces the number of shots and so the clip size is halved.

**Upgrades:** Any Pistol (Las) or Basic weapon (Las).

# **Red-Dot Laser Sight**

This is a laser sight that grants a +10 bonus to Ballistic Skill Tests when the weapon is fired on single shot.

**Upgrades:** Any Pistol or Basic Las, Solid Projectile, Bolt, Primitive or Plasma weapon. A red-dot laser sight counts as a sight and a gun may only have one sight.

# **Silencer**

Silencers lower the noise (and flash to a degree) from a weapon's discharge, preventing detection of the shot. Awareness Tests to hear shots made with a silenced weapon suffer an additional –20 penalty and can only be attempted at half the normal distance for detecting gunshots.

**Upgrades:** Stub revolver, stub automatic, hand cannon, autogun and hunting rifle.

# **Telescopic Sight**

Telescopic sights magnify the target's image, especially useful for long-range shots that need to hit a very specific target location. A weapon with a telescopic sight ignores penalties for long and extreme range as long as the shooter takes a Full Action to aim.

**Upgrades:** Any Basic Las, Solid Projectile, Bolt, Primitive or Plasma weapon. A telescopic sight counts as a sight and a gun may only have one sight.

# **AMMO**

Without ammo a gun is just a glorified club. Presented here is a selection of ammunition, including a variety of special types. Each type of ammo can only be used with certain weapons as detailed in its description. The table below details each type of ammo's cost in Thrones as well as the amount of shots this buys. Ammo weight is not listed; however, should it be important to know how much ammunition weighs, consider a weapon's full clip to weigh 10% of the weight of the weapon itself.

| Table 5-11: Ammo        |              |              |  |  |
|-------------------------|--------------|--------------|--|--|
| Name                    | Cost/Amount  | Availability |  |  |
| Arrows/Quarrels         | 1/20         | Common       |  |  |
| Shot                    | 1/20         | Common       |  |  |
| Bullets                 | 1/20         | Plentiful    |  |  |
| Shells                  | 1/20         | Common       |  |  |
| Charge Pack (pistol)    | 10/full clip | Common       |  |  |
| Charge Pack (basic)     | 15/full clip | Common       |  |  |
| Charge Pack (heavy)     | 30/full clip | Rare         |  |  |
| Fuel (pistol)           | 8/full clip  | Scarce       |  |  |
| Fuel (basic)            | 10/full clip | Scarce       |  |  |
| Bolt Shells             | 16/1         | Rare         |  |  |
| Melta Canister (pistol) | 20/full clip | Very Rare    |  |  |
| Melta Canister (basic)  | 15/full clip | Rare         |  |  |
| Plasma Flask (pistol)   | 24/full clip | Rare         |  |  |
| Plasma Flask (basic)    | 18/full clip | Rare         |  |  |
| Exotic                  | 20/1         | Very Rare    |  |  |
| Dumdum Bullets          | 5/6          | Scarce       |  |  |
| Hot-Shot Charge         | 15/1         | Scarce       |  |  |
| Inferno Shells          | 18/1         | Rare         |  |  |
| Man-Stopper Bullets     | 5/6          | Scarce       |  |  |

# **arrows/quarrels**

Arrows and quarrels come in a variety of shapes, sizes and materials ranging from crude wooden shafts with flint tips to steel darts with razor-sharp points.

**Used With:** Bows, crossbows and hand bows.

# **Shot**

Shot is solid lead or stone balls and a powder charge used in primitive blackpowder weapons.

**Used With:** Flintlock pistol and musket.

# **Bullets**

Hard rounds are common for many weapons within the Imperium and vary greatly in calibre and design. Bullets from one kind of firearm cannot be used in another unless they are very similar in make. So for example you could use bullets bought for a stub revolver in a stub automatic, but not in an autogun.

**Used With:** Autopistol, stub revolver, stub automatic, hand cannon, autogun, hunting rifle and heavy stubber.

# **Shells**

Shells contain dozens of tiny balls and are designed to scatter over a wide area when fired, making them ideal for close-in work where accuracy is less important.

**Used With:** Shotguns, pump-action shotguns and combat shotguns.

# **Charge Pack**

Charge packs are powerful batteries used almost exclusively by las weapons. The cost of a charge pack varies depending on the class of the weapon. In all cases, however, it provides shots equal to the weapon's full clip value.

**Used With:** Laspistol, las carbine, lasgun, long las, MP lascannon.

# **Fuel**

Flame weapons use liquid fuel, which can vary greatly in composition and quality from purest promethium to crude flammable alcohols. The cost of fuel varies depending on the class of the weapon. In all cases, however, it provides shots equal to the weapon's full clip value.

**Used With:** Hand flamer and flamer.

# **Bolt Shells**

The mass-reactive explosive bolt shell is among the deadliest kind of round in the Imperial arsenal. However the difficulty and cost of its manufacture restricts its use to all but the most wealthy or well connected.

**Used With:** Bolt pistols, bolters and heavy bolters.

# **Melta Canister**

Meltaguns use specially refined chemicals injected into highly pressurised canisters. The cost of a melta canister varies depending on the class of the weapon. In all cases, however, it provides shots equal to the weapon's full clip value.

**Used With:** Inferno pistols and meltaguns.

# **Plasma Flask**

Raw plasma weapon fuel consists of highly dangerous and volatile photonic hydrogen, compressed and contained within reinforced flasks. The cost of a plasma flask varies depending on the class of the weapon. In all cases, however, it provides

shots equal to the weapon's full clip value. **Used With:** Plasma pistols and plasma guns.

# **Exotic**

There are many kinds of weapons in the Imperium that use unusual types of ammunition, from the viscous gel of a webber to the finely crafted darts of a needle pistol. GMs should feel free to increase the cost of exotic ammunition depending on its rarity.

**Used With:** Needle pistol, needle rifle, web pistol and webber.

# **Dumdum Bullets**

These heavy blunt bullets are designed to cause maximum tissue damage and can tear apart soft targets, though they are less effective against armor. Dumdum bullets add 2 to the weapon's Damage, however armor Points count double against them.

**Used With:** Stub revolvers, stub automatics and hand cannons.

# **Hot-Shot Charge**

This is a single powerful charge pack for a las weapon. A weapon using a hot-shot charge adds 1 to its Damage, rolls two dice for its Damage and picks the highest, and gains an Penetration of 4. However the weapon loses its Reliable special quality, and its clip is reduced to 1 (basically hot-shots are one-use charge packs).

**Used With:** Laspistols, las carbines, lasguns, and long las.

# **Inferno Shells**

These shells contain a phosphorous gel that ignites on contact with the target. A target hit by an inferno shell must make an Agility Test or catch on fire, in addition to suffering damage as normal. Inferno shells may also be used to set things on fire besides people at the discretion of the GM.

**Used With:** Shotguns, pump-action shotguns, combat shotguns and all bolt weapons.

# **Man-Stopper Bullets**

These densely tipped bullets are designed to punch through armor. A weapon using man-stopper rounds adds 3 to its Penetration.

**Used With:** Stub revolvers, stub automatics, hand cannons, autopistols and autoguns.

# armor armor

*"Of course the Emperor protects! It's just that He protects me better when I'm in a full carapace suit."*

— Licensed Bounty Hunter, Elron Zaph.

Given the numerous weapons available in the 41st Millennium as well as their sheer lethality, it is no wonder that personal armor and protective energy fields are commonplace. Most important civilians always wear some sort of body armor when in public, and some of the more paranoid (or well prepared) also use them in private. Military personnel and Imperial agents are always equipped with some sort of armored protection, ranging from cheap layered padding to highly sophisticated armored shells built to withstand almost any attack. G

armor provides armor Points (AP) to various locations on your body. In addition, some kinds of armor have special properties that are noted in their description.

**armor Type:** The type of armor it is.

**Location(s) Covered:** What locations the armor covers, a combination of arms, legs, body and head. Some armor covers all four locations and is noted as covering "All".

**AP (armor Points):** How many armor Points the armor provides for the locations covered.

**Wt (Weight):** Represents how much the armor weighs in kilograms, for information on how much a character can carry refer to **Chapter VII: Playing the Game, [page 215](#page-215-0)**.

**Cost:** Indicates the standard price of the armor in the Imperium.

**Availability:** This identifies the armor's availability (see **Table 5-3: Consequences of Availability, [page 126](#page-126-0)**).

# **armor Craftsmanship**

- All the types of armor detailed here are of Common
- craftsmanship. For armor of better or worse manufacture use the following modifiers.
- **Poor:** Badly fitted, designed or damaged, Poor armor is difficult to wear. Characters wearing Poor armor take a –10 penalty to all Agility Tests.
- **Good:** Well constructed and better fitting, this armor is easier to wear. Against the first attack in any round, the armor increases its AP by 1.
- **Best:** Finely wrought and perfectly fitted Best armor is like donning a second skin. Best armor weighs half the normal amount and increases the AP by 1.

# Mixing armor

You can mix pieces of armor. However, their protective qualities do not "stack". In cases where an area which is covered by multiple pieces of armor is struck, the highest armor Points are used. For example, if a character wearing heavy leathers and xeno hides is hit in the body, the lower armor Points of the heavy leathers (AP 2) are ignored, and the armor Points of the xeno hides (6) are used for the purposes of calculating damage.

# Primitive armor

Often made from basic materials such as hides and soft metals, this kind of armor is better suited to turning blades than stopping bullets. armor with the Primitive quality only provides full protection against attacks made with weapons that also have the Primitive quality. Against all others, it provides half the normal AP (round up).

# Flak armor

Comprised of layers of ablative and impact-absorbent material, flak armor is effective against small arms, shrapnel and proximity blasts. Flak armor counts as AP 5 against any hit from a weapon with the Blast quality, provided the wearer was not on the spot where the blast originated.

| Table 5-12: armor       |                     |    |        |        |              |
|-------------------------|---------------------|----|--------|--------|--------------|
| armor Type              | Location(s) Covered | AP | Wt     | Cost   | Availability |
| Primitive armor         |                     |    |        |        |              |
| Gang Leathers           | Arms, Body, Legs    | 1  | 5 kg   | 25     | Average      |
| Heavy Leathers          | Arms, Body, Legs    | 2  | 7 kg   | 100    | Common       |
| Quilted Vest            | Body                | 2  | 2 kg   | 10     | Common       |
| Beast Furs              | Body                | 2  | 10 kg  | 5      | Average      |
| Grox Hides              | Body                | 3  | 14 kg  | 60     | Common       |
| Chain Coat              | Arms, Body, Legs    | 3  | 18 kg  | 50     | Average      |
| Feudal Plate            | All                 | 5  | 30 kg  | 120    | Scarce       |
| Xeno Hides              | Body                | 6  | 22 kg  | 5,000  | Very Rare    |
|                         |                     |    |        |        |              |
| Flak armor              |                     |    |        |        |              |
| Flak Helmet             | Head                | 2  | 2 kg   | 25     | Average      |
| Flak Gauntlets          | Arms                | 2  | 1 kg   | 50     | Average      |
| Light Flak Coat         | Arms, Body, Legs    | 2  | 4 kg   | 80     | Scarce       |
| Flak Vest               | Body                | 3  | 5 kg   | 50     | Average      |
| Flak Jacket             | Arms, Body, Legs    | 3  | 6 kg   | 100    | Average      |
| Flak Cloak              | Body                | 3  | 8 kg   | 80     | Scarce       |
| Guard Flak armor        | All                 | 4  | 11 kg  | 300    | Scarce       |
| Mesh armor              |                     |    |        |        |              |
| Mesh Cowl               | Head                | 3  | 0.5 kg | 100    | Rare         |
| Mesh Gloves             | Arms                | 3  | 0.5 kg | 120    | Rare         |
| Xeno Mesh               | Arms, Body, Legs    | 4  | 2 kg   | 375    | Rare         |
| Mesh Vest               | Body                | 4  | 1 kg   | 150    | Rare         |
| Mesh Combat Cloak       | Arms, Body          | 4  | 1.5 kg | 350    | Very Rare    |
| Carapace armor          |                     |    |        |        |              |
| Carapace Helm           | Head                | 4  | 2 kg   | 250    | Rare         |
| Carapace Vambraces      | Arms                | 5  | 2 kg   | 300    | Rare         |
| Carapace Greaves        | Legs                | 5  | 3 kg   | 375    | Rare         |
| Enforcer Light Carapace | Arms, Body, Legs    | 5  | 15 kg  | 575    | Rare         |
| Carapace Chest Plate    | Body                | 6  | 7 kg   | 600    | Rare         |
| Storm Trooper Carapace  | All                 | 6  | 17 kg  | 3,750  | Very Rare    |
| Power armor             |                     |    |        |        |              |
| Light Power armor       | All                 | 7  | 40 kg  | 8,500  | Very Rare    |
| Power armor             | All                 | 8  | 65 kg  | 15,000 | Very Rare    |
|                         |                     |    |        |        |              |

# **MESH armor**

Of alien design, and sometimes manufacture, mesh is formed from thousands of thermoplas cells linked together to create a fabric-like material. It is lightweight and can withstand most impacts or heat energy by becoming momentarily rigid, spreading and dissipating the attack.

# **CARAPACE armor**

Carapace armor is made of densely layered plates of armaplas, ceramite or some other kind of highly durable material. It is heavy to wear and cannot easily cover flexible areas such as joints, but it offers significantly better protection than lighter kinds of armor.

# **POWER armor**

The heaviest and most sophisticated kinds of armor use their own power source increasing the user's strength. Power armor adds +20 to the wearer's Strength Characteristic and increases his size by one step (so for example a human who is average size would become hulking). Power armor also requires a constant power supply, which must be carried by the wearer (usually as a backpack). A standard non-military power supply lasts for 1d5 hours before it needs to be replaced or recharged.

*"Prepare for the worst, because that is where you are headed."* – Imperial Guard proverb.

In addition to weapons and armor there is a host of other equipment that Acolytes can make use of in the service of the Emperor. I

# **CLOTHING**

| Table 5-13: Clothing & Personal Items |        |       |              |  |  |
|---------------------------------------|--------|-------|--------------|--|--|
| Name                                  | Wt     | Cost  | Availability |  |  |
| Backpack                              | 1 kg   | 10    | Plentiful    |  |  |
| Cameleoline Cloak                     | 0.5 kg | 500   | Rare         |  |  |
| Charm                                 | —      | Var   | Average      |  |  |
| Chrono                                | —      | 40    | Abundant     |  |  |
| Clip/Drop Harness                     | 2 kg   | 25    | Common       |  |  |
| Clothing                              | —      | Var   | Abundant     |  |  |
| Explosive collar                      | 1 kg   | 55    | Rare         |  |  |
| Filtration Plugs                      | —      | 15    | Common       |  |  |
| Infra-Red Goggles                     | 0.5 kg | 275   | Rare         |  |  |
| Photo-Visors/Contacts 0.5 kg          |        | 100   | Scarce       |  |  |
| Re-Breather                           | 1 kg   | 50    | Scarce       |  |  |
| Recoil Glove                          | 0.5 kg | 85    | Common       |  |  |
| Respirator/Gas-Mask                   | 0.5 kg | 25    | Average      |  |  |
| Void Suit                             | 8 kg   | 100   | Plentiful    |  |  |
| Synskin                               | 2 kg   | 2,500 | Very Rare    |  |  |

# **Backpack**

A personal carrying device can take many forms, but is usually some kind of bag with attached straps for ease of carrying. A backpack can usually carry approximately 50 kilograms.

# **Cameleoline Cloak**

Cameleoline material is made up of mimic fibres that blend the coloration of the wearer into their surroundings. A character wearing a cameleoline cloak gains a +20 bonus to Concealment Tests. If the wearer remains stationary, he counts as being at Extreme Range (see **Chapter VII: Playing the Game, [page 198](#page-198-0)**) when targeted by ranged weapons.

# **Charm**

A charm is a keepsake, holy relic or good luck token that is intended to draw the benevolent eye of the Emperor to the wearer. They take a myriad of forms including such things as saintly finger bones, fragments of blessed bolter casings, water from holy rivers and even corpse hair woven into significant patterns. Throughout the Imperium, there is no shortage of folk that will sell such items to Acolytes, though discerning the true relics from the false is an almost impossible task (thus the cost of a charm is entirely up to the GM and how well the Acolyte can haggle with the seller).

Charms have no tangible benefits. However, when the adventure calls for something bad to happen to a random character, at the GMs discretion a character with a charm will be exempt. If all the characters carry charms (as all Emperorfearing citizens should) then it is up to the GM to choose which charms are the most potent.

Clothing In The Imperium H ere are a few examples of the kinds of clothing that can be found on the various worlds of the Imperium: Rag-Castings (Poor Quality Clothing) Many folk within the Imperium have no choice but to clothe themselves in whatever bits of scavenged material they can. These kinds of tattered outfits are know as rag-castings and often give the wearer the appearance of being encased in rubbish. Coveralls (Common Quality Clothing) Often disposable and made from whatever cheap and plentiful materials are available, the coverall is standard clothing on countless worlds. In the same way as a bodyglove is designed to meet the extreme demands of an Imperial agent's job, so too is the coverall intended to offer the average Imperial citizen all he needs. Bodyglove (Good Quality Clothing) Skilled operatives and physical adepts often wear form-fitting bodygloves. These can range from simple rubberised flesh sheaths to bodygloves made of enhanced materials with integral cooling coils. In all cases, they are designed for comfort and freedom of movement. Billow Robes (Best Quality Clothing) A sure sign of opulence, the billow robe is fashioned from a special lighter-than-air material that seems to float and drift around the wearer as he or she moves. Terribly impractical but impressive to behold, such clothing is usually restricted to those whose only task is to stand around and look pretty.

# **Chrono**

Chronos are hand-held or wrist-worn timepieces, generally dependable and simple to use.

# **Clip Harness/Drop Harness**

A compact spool-stored safety line, with a magnetic or hooked clasp. These are ideal for safety on rooftops or rappelling down buildings. A character using a clip harness to descend a vertical surface gains a +30 bonus to Climb Tests and cannot fall if he fails.

# **Clothing**

The citizens of the Imperium wear a staggering range of clothing of all styles imaginable, and fashion is tied directly to the importance of the individual. For Acolytes, this represents such things as a suit of practical street wear, military uniform or religious garb. The cost of clothing is up to how much the Acolytes choose to spend on their apparel, from basic rags costing a few Thrones up to exquisite and expensive attire costing thousands.

# **Explosive Collar**

These unpleasant devices are most often seen attached to penal legionnaires to serve as an additional incentive in fighting for the Emperor. Collars usually come with a remote trigger that can be used to detonate the collar up to, and sometimes over, ranges of 1,000 metres. When the collar explodes it instantly kills the wearer and inflicts 1d10 Explosive Damage on anyone within three metres. The remote trigger can also be used to remove the collar. Removing the collar without the trigger requires a Hard (–20) Tech-Use Test. A serious or worse failure indicates that the collar explodes.

# **Filtration Plugs**

These are simple plugs worn in each nostril to screen out most pollutants and harmful gases. A character wearing filtration plugs gains a +20 bonus to any Toughness Test made to resist the effects of gas.

# **Infra-Red Goggles**

Relatively simple devices, IR goggles allow the wearer to see thermal images from warm bodies, revealing hiding enemies at night. A character wearing IR goggles suffers no penalties due to darkness and gains a +20 bonus to vision-based Perception Tests at night. Advanced models can be disguised to appear as simple eyeglasses.

# **Photo-Visors/Photo-Contacts**

Advanced lenses designed to enhance the low-level light available on even the darkest nights. Users can see in the dark almost as well as in daylight with them. Characters wearing these gain the Dark Sight trait (see **[page 325](#page-325-0)**). Good Quality

visors also dampen the effects of photon flash grenades, making the wearer immune to their effects.

# **Re-Breather**

Consisting of a mask or helmet, re-breathers contain their own air supply and are designed to preserve the user in even the most toxic atmospheres. A character wearing a re-breather is immune to the effects of gases and can even survive underwater. However, re-breathers typically have air canisters that last for about one hour and then must be replaced. Replacing a canister is a Full Action. Replacement canisters cost 25 Thrones and are scarce.

# **Recoil Gloves**

These gloves have interlocking plates connected with memory wire. When the user grips a weapon, it locks together into a rigid strut around the hand and wrist, thus preventing wrist or arm damage when the weapon discharges. A character using a recoil glove can fire a Basic weapon with one hand without the normal –20 penalty. In addition, Pistol weapons that require two hands can be used one-handed without penalty.

# **Respirator/Gas Mask**

This is a breathing mask that covers the nose and mouth or entire face, and offers much better protection than filtration plugs. A character wearing a respirator or gas mask gains a +30 bonus to Toughness Tests made to resist the effects of gas, and may re-roll failed results.

# **Void Suit**

These sealed suits are intended to preserve the wearer in the most hostile environments. A void suit incorporates a re-breather and in addition allows the wearer to survive in vacuum.

# **Synskin**

Synskin is a bio-reactive bodyglove with an inert nonreflective surface that moulds itself to the wearer's form. Synskin adds 2 armor Points to all locations and the wearer gains a +10 bonus to Concealment and Silent Move Tests. In addition, synskin renders the wearer invisible to the effects of infra-red goggles and Dark Sight.

# **DRUGS AND CONSUMABLES**

| Table 5-14: Drugs and Consumables                                                             |      |      |              |  |
|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------|------|--------------|--|
| Name                                                                                          | Wt   | Cost | Availability |  |
| Amasec†                                                                                       | —    | 50   | Scarce       |  |
| De-Tox†                                                                                       | —    | 65   | Rare         |  |
| Frenzon†                                                                                      | —    | 95   | Very Rare    |  |
| Injector                                                                                      | —    | 5    | Abundant     |  |
| Lho-sticks†                                                                                   | —    | 10   | Common       |  |
| Medikit                                                                                       | 2 kg | 150  | Common       |  |
| Obscura†                                                                                      | —    | 285  | Rare         |  |
| Ration Packs†                                                                                 | —    | 10   | Plentiful    |  |
| Recaf†                                                                                        | —    | 5    | Abundant     |  |
| Rotgut Booze†                                                                                 | —    | 10   | Abundant     |  |
| Sacred Machine Oil†                                                                           | —    | 150  | Very Rare    |  |
| Slaught†                                                                                      | —    | 75   | Scarce       |  |
| Spook†                                                                                        | —    | 395  | Rare         |  |
| Stimm†                                                                                        | —    | 20   | Average      |  |
| †Cost indicates 1 dose for drugs or 1 pack/bottle for rations/alcohol and lho-sticks. |      |      |              |  |

Amasec is a popular alcoholic drink distilled from wine. It can range from lesser brews barely fit for firebombs to well-aged and flavourful brands suitable for only the finest of the Emperor's servants.

# **De-Tox (Drug)**

This drug can negate the effects of most dangerous gases and toxins if administered fast enough. A dose of de-tox immediately ends the ongoing effects, both positive and negative, of any drugs, toxins or gases affecting the character (unless the effect states that de-tox is not effective against them).

Using de-tox, however, is both painful and debilitating, causing such unpleasant side effects as vomiting, nose bleeds and a great voiding of the bowels. Upon taking this drug, a character is Stunned for a number of Rounds equal to 1d10 minus his Toughness Bonus. A result of 0 or less means that the character suffers no ill effects.

# **Excessive Drug Use**

When the same drug is used too often, especially in a short period of time, there is a chance for it to have no effect. This represents an Acolyte's body building an immunity. If you use more than one dose of a drug within a 24 hour period you must make a Toughness Test for each use after the first, with a cumulative –20 penalty. Should you fail, the drug has no effect and further doses do not affect you for a full 24 hours.

# **Frenzon (Drug)**

A generic name for a variety of combat drugs most often used within penal legion units. Once administered, the subject becomes fearless and fanatical in combat. A character using frenzon gains the Frenzy talent and also gains immunity to Fear. A single dose of frenzon lasts for 1d10 minutes.

# **Injector**

Injectors can take many forms from cheap low-tech disposable syringes up to sophisticated hypo-sprays and even bio-attuned skin patches. An injector can hold a single dose of any drug, which a character may administer as a Full Action.

# **Lho-sticks**

Lho-sticks are common with Imperial Guard troopers and many menial workers. Each rolled paper tube contains a scented, mildly narcotic (and addictive) plant-derived substance, which is then lit and the resulting smoke inhaled through the tube.

# **Medikit**

This is vital bit of equipment for any medic. A typical medikit contains various cataplasm patches, contraseptics and synthskin. A character that has a medikit at hand when using the Medicae skill gains a +20 bonus to their test. Medikits also come with 6 doses of stimm, which must be replaced separately when used.

# **Obscura (Drug)**

While prohibited and the subject of widespread crackdowns, obscura remains a widely used narcotic among many Imperial subjects. Smugglers can often make a good living importing and selling the drug to all classes of civilians and military personnel. Those taking obscura enter a dream-like state for 1d5 hours (if required to engage in combat consider them under the effects of a hallucinogen grenade (see **[page 136](#page-136-0)**). Then for 1d10 hours after the effects wear off, they enter a deep depression, unless another dose of obscura is taken.

# **Ration Packs**

Most food in the Imperium is packaged, processed and usually completely unrecognisable as anything edible. The quality of ration packs varies widely, from simple and poor fare such as corpse starch (CS) rations and cultured algae up to flavoured strips of grox meat and finest nutrislurry.

# **Recaf**

Recaf is a popular hot beverage, made from crushed and brewed leaves. The composition can vary from planet to planet, but most blends have a stimulant such as caffeine as a basic release agent.

# **Rotgut Booze**

Alcohol comes in many shapes and sizes throughout the Imperium, and most cultures are noted for at least one kind of fermented liquid. The catch-all term for these more basic brews (especially by travellers) is rotgut booze.

# **Sacred Machine Oil**

Machine oil blessed by the Omnissiah is much sought after for its mystical properties when applied to machines. If applied to a weapon (a Full Action) it becomes immune to Jamming (see **Chapter VII: Playing the Game, [page 196](#page-196-0)**) for a number of shots equal to its clip size. If the weapon is Jammed and the oil is then applied, it immediately unjams, but there is no further effect.

# **Slaught (Drug)**

Also know as onslaught, this drug heightens awareness and improves reaction time, literally speeding up the user but causing Fatigue and neural damage with prolonged use. Taking a dose increases the user's Agility Bonus and Perception Bonus by 3 for 2d10 minutes. When the drug runs its course, the user must Test Toughness or take a –20 penalty to Agility Tests and Perception Tests for 1d5 hours.

# **Spook (Drug)**

This drug can augment and even produce short-term psychic abilities in the user. If a character without any Psy Rating takes a dose of spook he must successfully make a Willpower Test or gain 1d5 Insanity Points as his mind is filled with horrible visions of the warp. On a success, the user gains a power from **Table 5-15: Random Psychic Powers**—see descriptions in **Chapter VI: Psychic Powers**. The power lasts for 1d5 hours and the user manifests the power—if he does not have the Focus Power skill—by making a Hard (–20) Willpower Test.

If a character with a Psy Rating of 1 or more uses spook they must make a Willpower Test. If they fail they gain an Insanity Point and no further effects. If they pass they add 2 to all Power Rolls for the next hour. However, add +25 to any rolls made on the Psychic Phenomena table (see **Table 6-2: Psychic Phenomena, [page 162](#page-162-0)**).

# **Stimm (Drug)**

Stimm is a powerful drug that works to mask pain and drive fighters on when their bodies would otherwise give up. A dose of stimm lasts 3d10 Rounds. During this time a character ignores any negative effects to their Characteristics from Damage or Critical Damage and cannot be Stunned. When the stimm wears off, the character takes a –20 penalty to Strength, Toughness and Agility Tests for one hour.

|       | Table 5-15: Random Psychic Powers    |
|-------|--------------------------------------|
| Roll  | Minor Power                          |
| 01–02 | Call Creatures                       |
| 03–05 | Call Item                            |
| 06–08 | Chameleon                            |
| 09–11 | Déjà vu                              |
| 12–14 | Distort Vision                       |
| 15–17 | Dull Pain                            |
| 18–20 | Enhance Phenomena                    |
| 21–23 | Fearful Aura                         |
| 24–26 | Flash Bang                           |
| 27–29 | Float                                |
| 30–32 | Forget Me                            |
| 33–35 | Healer                               |
| 36–38 | Inflict Pain                         |
| 39–41 | Inspiring Aura                       |
| 42–44 | Knack                                |
| 45–47 | Lucky                                |
| 48–50 | Precognition                         |
| 51–53 | Psychic Stench                       |
| 54–56 | Resist Possession                    |
| 57–59 | Sense Presence                       |
| 60–63 | Spasm                                |
| 64–67 | Spectral Hands                       |
| 68–70 | Staunch Bleeding                     |
| 71–72 | Time Skip                            |
| 73–74 | Touch of Madness                     |
| 75–77 | Trick                                |
| 78–80 | Unnatural Aim                        |
| 81–82 | Wall Walk                            |
| 83–84 | Warp Howl                            |
| 85–86 | Weaken Veil                          |
| 87–88 | Weapon Jinx                          |
| 89–90 | White Noise                          |
| 91–92 | Wither                               |
| 93–94 | Roll twice, gaining both Powers      |
| 95–96 | Pick any one Power                   |
| 97–00 | Gain 1 Insanity point and roll again |

# **TOOLS**

# Table 5-16: Tools

| Name                 | Wt     | Cost | Availability |
|----------------------|--------|------|--------------|
| Auspex/Scanner       | 0.5 kg | 145  | Scarce       |
| Auto Quill           | —      | 55   | Scarce       |
| Combi-tool           | 1 kg   | 200  | Rare         |
| Data-slate           | 0.5 kg | 25   | Common       |
| Demolition Charge    | 1 kg   | 250  | Scarce       |
| Excruciator Kit      | 1 kg   | 375  | Very Rare    |
| Glow-globe/Lamp pack | 0.5 kg | 15   | Abundant     |
| Grapnel              | 2 kg   | 30   | Common       |
| Lascutter            | 4 kg   | 65   | Average      |
| Magnoculars          | 0.5 kg | 55   | Average      |
| Manacles             | 1 kg   | 35   | Plentiful    |
| Micro-bead           | —      | 20   | Average      |
| Multikey             | —      | 150  | Scarce       |
| Pict Recorder        | 1 kg   | 100  | Average      |
| Psy-focus            | —      | 100  | Rare         |
| Screamers            | 2 kg   | 140  | Scarce       |
| Stummers             | 2 kg   | 25   | Average      |
| Vox-caster           | 4 kg   | 300  | Scarce       |
| Writing Kit          | 2 kg   | 20   | Common       |
|                      |        |      |              |

# **Auspex/Scanner**

These devices are used to detect energy emissions, motion and biological life signs. A character using an auspex gains a +20 bonus to Awareness Tests and may make a Tech-Use Test to use an auspex to spot things not normally detectable to human senses alone, such as invisible gases, nearby biosigns or ambient radiation. The standard range for an auspex is 50m, though walls more than 50cm thick and certain shielding materials can block the scanner.

# **Auto Quill**

These arcane-looking scribing devices allow the user to copy text at an impressive rate with great accuracy. A character with the Trade (Copyist) skill can use an auto quill to gain a +10 to their Skill Tests.

# **Combi-Tool**

Commonly found in the hands of member of the Adeptus Mechanicus, combi-tools are versatile if somewhat bizarre mechanical devices. A character using a combi-tool gains a +10 bonus to Tech-Use Tests.

# **Data-slate**

Data-slates are commonplace in the Imperium, as the primary means of storing and reading printed text and other media such as video or audio recordings. They are so cheap and easy to make that many contain a single media recording, such as text, and can only play that single file. Others can re-record new information, and transmit and receive data from other devices.

# **Demolition Charge**

A demolition charge is a simple explosive device, commonly used for blowing open doors, breaching walls and destroying bridges. The cost and weight for a demolition charge represents 1 kg of explosives, though it is possible to rig charges together thus increasing their destructive potential. When a demolition charge explodes, anyone (or anything) caught within its blast radius takes 3d10 Explosive Damage plus an additional 2 points of Damage for every kilogram used. The blast radius of the charge is equal to the number of kilograms used times 5 metres. For setting and defusing explosives see the Demolition skill in **Chapter III: Skills, [page 101](#page-101-0)**.

# **Excruciator Kit**

These devices are used in the questioning of captured enemies of the Imperium, or in revealing to those who have turned away from the Emperor the nature of their sins. Each is a dazzling array of blades, needles, chemicals, drugs, thermal prongs, neural links and other devices any explicator would need in his duties. A character with an excruciator kit gains a +20 bonus to all Interrogation Tests.

# **Glow-globe/Lamp pack**

A common source of light at night or in darkened areas, these handy devices can usually illuminate an area a dozen or more metres in diameter. A typical glow-globe or lamp pack lasts 1d5 hours before it needs to be recharged or have its power cell replaced.

# **Grapnel**

Grapnels use a small launcher or gun to fire a hooked or magnetic grapnel, connected to the launcher with a thin but strong wire (100m). Once the grapnel attaches to the desired spot, such as a rooftop, the user can manually climb the line or activate a powered winch. In a pinch they can also be used as a crude (and messy) projectile weapon (counting as a single-shot crossbow).

# **Lascutter**

When a door (or more commonly a bulkhead) cannot be opened normally, a lascutter comes into play. Originally used by miners, these short-range devices emit an intense laser beam, which can knife through hard, dense materials such as rock, steel and even armor plate with relative ease. As a general rule, a lascutter can cut through, or weld shut, 10 cm of metal a Turn (this length of time can be adjusted up or down depending on the thickness of the material in question). Lascutters are too unwieldy to be used in combat.

# **Magnoculars**

These are powerful vision aids, which magnify distant objects. More advanced, higher-quality magnoculars can also do such things as give range read-outs, detect heat sources, calculate target location positioning and take image snapshots for later analysis.

# **Manacles**

These are solid restraints often used by bounty hunters and enforcers, which can equally be found in the hands of more nefarious individuals for darker purposes.

# **Micro-bead**

A micro-bead or comm-bead is a short-range communication device worn in the ear, good out to about one kilometre. Such things as bad weather, dense terrain and intervening rock or plasteel can greatly reduce this range, however.

# **Multikey**

As it can open most standard Imperial locks, the multikey is not a standard item for most honest Imperial citizens. For the same reason though, they are widely sought after by criminals and other disreputable elements. A character with a multikey gains a +30 bonus to any Security Test when trying to open locks.

# **Pict Recorder**

Pict recorders are relatively simple live-media recording devices, and some have holographic capabilities. Most also allow for playback as well as recording, and some are even built into special servitors so they can capture important archaeological tech-quests, weapons tests, alien interrogations and other possibly dangerous events.

# **Psy-focus**

Pyskers often use devices to help them focus their powers. A psy-focus could be sacred bones, carved wytch staves, blessed icons or crystals. When a Psyker with a Psy-focus makes an Invocation Test (see **Chapter III: Skills, [page 103](#page-103-0)**) he gains a +10 bonus.

# **Screamers**

Screamers are proximity alarms that detect motion or sound (depending on the model) and alert their users to incoming dangers by setting off a horrendous noise. To use a screamer, you must succeed on a Tech-Use Test. The GM rolls this test in secret so you are not sure of whether or not the device will work properly. Once set, a screamer has a Perception of 75 for the purposes of detecting sounds or motions. If it detects an intruder, it sounds its alarm, which can be heard anywhere out to one kilometre. Doors, walls and other barriers may reduce the alarm's range.

# **Stummers**

The reverse of a screamer, stummers generate sound waves to cancel out ambient sounds and noises made by moving personnel in a small area. A character carrying an active stummer gains a +30 bonus to Silent Move Tests. A stummer typically has enough power for 20 minutes of continuous use before needing to be recharged (taking about one hour).

# **Vox-caster**

A vox is a simple communication device that can be used to send signals over great distances, up to and including ships in orbit from a planet's surface. Using a vox to receive or transmit signals requires a successful Ordinary (+10) Tech-Use Test.

# **Writing Kit**

A writing kit contains papers, inks and quills.

Services indicate those things that are often essential to an Acolyte's life, such as finding a place to sleep, food to eat and some fool with a vehicle willing to transport them into carrion swamps, ash wastes or some other equally dangerous locale.

Because of the near limitless supply and variety of services on offer, GMs are encouraged to create prices for these things as they see fit. After all, the cost of a drink at a lower-hab bar will vary from street-to-street, let alone hive-to-hive or beyond. However, you may want to use the prices, availabilities and categories below as a guide:

**Accommodation**: Covering all manner of lodgings and rented shelters, from the crude tavern rooms of a medieval world to the glittering suites of a high spire.

**Provisions**: This includes any kind of consumables, such as foodstuffs and beverages.

**Transportation**: All manner of travel (though it should be noted that transportation is considered to cover only travel within a fixed local, such as a single world and not interplanetary or interstellar journeys).

The cost of a service, given in Thrones, indicates only a single night's accommodation or a single meal or trip. In the case of transportation, the GM is free to modify this rate dependant on such things as travel in dangerous regions and unusually long journeys.

| Table 5-17: Services             |      |              |
|----------------------------------|------|--------------|
| TypeAccommodation            | Cost | Availability |
| Low Grade (Hab Sleeper Capsule,  |      |              |
| Grox Pen, Bilge Berth)           | 5    | Plentiful    |
| Mid Grade (Down Cell,            |      |              |
| Single Lodge Room, Mid Cabin)    | 20   | Common       |
| High Grade (Grand Hall Lodgings, |      |              |
| High Berth Quarters)             | 100  | Scarce       |
|                                  |      |              |
| Provisions                       |      |              |
| Low Grade (Vermin Meat,          |      |              |
| Hydro-Fungus, Silt Ale)          | 1    | Plentiful    |
| Mid Grade (Proto Paste,          |      |              |
| Side of Grox, Round of Amasec)   | 5    | Common       |
| High Grade (Roasted Vex Worm,    |      |              |
| Liquid of Amberic)               | 40   | Scarce       |
|                                  |      |              |
| Transportation                   |      |              |
| Low Grade (Dust Dog,             |      |              |
| Sub-level Conveyer, Silt Barge)  | 5    | Plentiful    |
| Mid Grade (Light Civ Ground      |      |              |
| Vehicle, Atmospheric Flight)     | 20   | Common       |
| High Grade (Low Orbit Flight,    |      |              |
| Sedan Chair)                     | 150  | Scarce       |

# **SERVICES MEDICAL CARE**

Acolytes are going to get hurt, often badly. When this unfortunate event occurs they need someone to patch them up. GMs can use **Table 5-18: Medical Care** as a guide for Acolytes seeking medical assistance.

**Type:** This indicates the level of medical care on offer, ranging from poor to excellent.

**Cost:** This is how much it costs for a doctor to make a single attempt to heal the character. For extended care, cost can be used as the cost per day, not including food and accommodation. Cost does not take into account charlatans and doctors who greatly overestimate their skills, nor those few honest souls that care for the sick and wounded out of the goodness of their hearts. GMs should feel free to adjust the price as needed.

**Availability:** Good doctors are hard to find and when looking for medical attention Acolytes must often check their availability (see **Table 5-3: Consequences of Availability, [page 126](#page-126-0)**).

**Effect:** To work out the effects of medical care use the relevant information on the doctor administrating and make any Skill Tests as necessary. See **Chapter III: Skills** for information on medical attention.

| Table 5-18: Medical Care                  |     |                   |                                                    |  |
|-------------------------------------------|-----|-------------------|----------------------------------------------------|--|
| Type                                      |     | Cost Availability | Effect                                             |  |
| Poor(feral world shaman)              | 50  | Average           | Int 30,Medicae skill                           |  |
| Average(trained medic)                | 75  | Scarce            | Int 40,Medicae skill                           |  |
| Good(trained doctor,med-servitor) | 150 | Rare              | Int 50,Medicae skill +10                       |  |
| Excellent(skilled physician)          | 500 | Very Rare         | Int 60,Medicae skill +20,Master Chirurgeon |  |

*"Your flesh belongs to the Omnissiah, that he may shape it anew in his own image."*

– Excerpt from the *Mechanicus Rites of Bonding.*

B Bionic implants and cybernetic augmentation are a fact of life in the Imperium. They are blessings of the Machine God, enabling damaged or diseased parts of the body to be replaced, improving on the abilities and powers of the human body and, in certain cases, extending life. There is a price to be paid for such improvements, and this cost is measured not simply in flesh but, it can be argued, in humanity and even sanity.

Thanks to superstition and the uneven level of technology across the Imperium, the sophistication and use of bionics varies widely (as does the reaction to those who display them). Each different kind of cybernetic grants the user different benefits (and sometimes penalties) depending on its craftsmanship (see Craftsmanship, **[page 126](#page-126-0)**). The exception to this is Best quality cybernetics that provide no additional benefits beyond those of Good quality, but are more impressive in the construction and design. The cost and availability listed below represents Common cybernetics.

All mechadendrite cybernetics are considered to be of Good craftsmanship unless otherwise noted.

| Table 5–19: Cybernetics   |       |                 |  |  |
|---------------------------|-------|-----------------|--|--|
| Name                      | Cost  | Availability    |  |  |
| Bionic Arm                | 1,000 | Scarce          |  |  |
| Bionic Locomotion         | 1,500 | Scarce          |  |  |
| Bionic Respiratory System | 800   | Rare            |  |  |
| Auger Arrays              | 1,000 | Rare            |  |  |
| Ballistic Mechadendrite   | 600   | Adeptus         |  |  |
|                           |       | Mechanicus Only |  |  |
| Cortex Implants           | 5,000 | Very Rare       |  |  |
| Cybernetic Senses         | 2,250 | Rare            |  |  |
| Manipulator Mechadendrite | 500   | Adeptus         |  |  |
|                           |       | Mechanicus Only |  |  |
| Medicae Mechadendrite     | 500   | Adeptus         |  |  |
|                           |       | Mechanicus Only |  |  |
| Mind Impulse Unit         | 1,750 | Rare            |  |  |
| Optical Mechadendrite     | 400   | Adeptus         |  |  |
|                           |       | Mechanicus Only |  |  |
| Utility Mechadendrite     | 500   | Adeptus         |  |  |
|                           |       | Mechanicus Only |  |  |

**"Strike fast and suddenly. Attack without warning. Secure victory before the foe is aware of his danger. Remember always, a war is easily won if your enemy does not know he is fighting."**

# **BIONIC REPLACEMENT LIMBS AND BODY PARTS**

Bionic replacement limbs are assumed to operate at the same level of strength and dexterity as the body they are attached to (rather than risk ripping themselves out of their host through overpressure), though their robust construction does add +2 to the owner's Toughness Bonus against hits scored to the particular location. Damage taken to these locations counts towards Damage to the character, and Critical Damage dealt to these locations function as normal. However, any result that causes bleeding or some other inappropriate result renders the bionic limb useless. Critical Damage to a limb that results in death has the full effect as it can be assumed that the limb explodes into shrapnel, incinerates or discharges stored energy through its owner with lethal effect.

Replacement and additional limbs (such as mechadendrites) can only be used to perform tasks that the owner already knows how to do. So for example, a character with a medicae mechadendrite must have the Medicae skill in order to take advantage of the extra abilities the limb grants.

Note that bonuses and penalties relate only to tests made using the bionic limb, and characters that have two bionic limbs do not gain double the bonus, but rather they may apply the bonus regardless of which bionic limb they are using.

# **Attaching Bionics and Implants**

Implants and bionics are only available if the character has access to both the resources and skilled labour to have them installed; commonly this is only available in substantial medicae facilities and worlds with a very high technological base.

If a character can find a doctor willing to install a bionic or implant then the process takes no less than 2d10 days, minus one day for each point of his Toughness Bonus (to a minimum of one day). How difficult it is to attach a bionic or implant is up to the GM. He may decide that given enough time, and in an advanced enough facility, it is automatic, or he may call on the doctor to make a series of Medicae or even Tech-Use Tests that could lead to such things as permanent crippling or Blood Loss (see **Chapter VII: Playing the Game, [page 211](#page-211-0)**).

# **Bionic Arm**

Common versions of these systems mirror the function of the human arm and hand exactly, retaining strength, dexterity and sense of touch.

Poor versions half the owner's Agility score where matters of fine dexterity are involved and Weapon Skill and Ballistic Skill Tests take a –10 penalty when using the limb.

Good bionic arms provide a +10 bonus on Agility Tests requiring delicate manipulation (such as Sleight of Hand) and add a +10 bonus to Strength Tests using the arm.

# **Bionic Locomotion (Legs, Hips, Pelvis, etc.)**

Common locomotion bionics must be fully integrated into the spine and nervous system to function properly; basic models accomplish this without any loss of function over the human norm.

Poor versions halve the character's Movement Rates (round up), and such characters that attempt to run must succeed on an Agility Test or fall at the end of their movement.

Good versions of these systems grant the owner the Sprint talent. In addition they add a +20 bonus to Athletics Tests made to jump or leap.

# **Bionic Respiratory System**

Common bionic lungs and implanted respiratory systems mimic the action of human lungs and keep the body supplied with oxygen. Such characters gain a +20 bonus to Toughness Tests made to resist airborne toxins and gas weapons.

Poor bionic lungs offer the same benefits as the Common system. However, they are raucously loud affairs and characters take a –20 penalty to all Silent Move checks. A generally poor oxygen supply to the body means all tests involving strenuous physical activity are increased by one level of Difficulty.

Good bionic lungs count as a full life support system (thus if for any reason the user's own respiratory system fails, his bionic lungs will keep his blood oxygenated), and their presence may be unnoticeable if designed to be so.

# Implant Systems

What follows are some of the more widely used bionic and cybernetic implants desired to improve or salvage the human body. Implants usually serve to grant a human some ability they did not already possess, or integrate external devices into their bodies.

# **Auger Arrays**

These are implanted devices duplicating the effects of special sensors. In all cases their use requires concentration and a Half Action.

Common systems function identically to a standard auspex (see **[page 150](#page-150-0)**).

Poor systems possess only a single detection ability (either heat, radiation or electromagnetics) and only function within 20 metres.

Good systems function as a full auspex but also allow rerolls on all Perception based Tests when using its functions.

# **Ballistic Mechadendrite**

This solid, shoulder-mounted mechadendrite is designed for selfdefence. This two metre limb is mounted with a sleek-looking laspistol of Adeptus Mechanicus design. This weapon counts as a laspistol with the Compact upgrade. As a reaction, the Tech-Priest may use this mechadendrite as if it were his off-hand, but suffers no penalties to hit. Note that this weapon has no optical targeting facilities built in. You must have the appropriate Mechadendrite Use talent to operate this implant.

Mechadendrite, Ballistic

Mechadendrite, Medicae

154

# **Cortex Implants**

These systems may be used to repair a severely damaged brain, or seek to augment its abilities.

Common cortex implants are used to restore paralysed and brain-damaged individuals to some semblance of normality. The best that can be managed by these systems is a permanent loss of 1d10 points from the character's Weapon Skill, Ballistic Skill, Agility, Intelligence and Fellowship. In addition, such characters gain 1d10 Insanity Points.

Poor cortex implants restore brain function but destroy the personality and memories of the subject, effectively making them a servitor, and are obviously unsuitable for characters.

Good cortex implants are extremely rare even among the Mechanicus, and their creation is an almost lost art (therefore they cost ten times the usual cost for a rare item). They grant the trait Unnatural Intelligence (×2) (see **[page 332](#page-332-0)**) and in addition perform all the functions of a cogitator system. However, characters with this implant gain 1d10 Insanity Points.

# **Cybernetic Senses**

Sight, hearing and even touch and taste may be duplicated artificially, and more esoteric senses may be added.

Common systems, while usually very obviously artificial and often oversized, manage to more or less duplicate the approximate human range of senses adequately and have no further game effects.

Poor cybernetic senses are troublesome and poor imitations of the real thing (hearing may be troubled by static, vision glitches or rendered in low-resolution monochrome, and so on). A character with this system takes a –20 penalty to Tests made involving the cybernetic sense.

Good cybernetic senses grant the Heightened Senses talent for that particular sense, and a +20 bonus to Tests made to resist attacks on the sense itself (deafening noises, blinding flashes and so on). Basic and advanced cyber-eyes may also incorporate telescopic sights (counting as a telescopic sight, see **[page 142](#page-142-0)** for more details), a full photo-visor, and/or a system allowing the Dark Sight trait (see **[page 329](#page-329-0)**). Likewise, basic or advanced cybernetic hearing may also include an internal micro-bead system. Each of these "extra" upgrades counts as a separate implant for the purposes of cost.

# **Manipulator Mechadendrite**

This powerful shoulder-mounted mechadendrite is designed for heavy lifting and manipulation of industrial gear. Built of fire-hardened ceramite and steel, this limb may extend to a length of 1.5m. When using the arm, the character gains a +20 bonus to Strength Tests. This limb is tipped with two sets of gripping and crushing pincers. These may be locked around a suitable anchor point as a Free Action to safely tether the Tech-Priest to lifting gear, high gantries and so on. Finally, a character may use the manipulator as a club. It counts as a Primitive weapon that deals 1d5+2 Impact Damage.

The manipulator may not be used for any task requiring fine manipulation (typing on a key pad, handling delicate objects, doing up a zip and so on). You must have the appropriate Mechadendrite Use talent to operate this implant.

# **Medicae Mechadendrite**

This two-metre long, flexible limb is designed to provide medical and surgical assistance in the field. It grants a +10 bonus to Medicae Tests. The mechadendrite houses six injector pistons, each of which may be filled with one dose of a drug. These must be supplied and replaced separately. In addition to providing first aid, the mechadendrite's flesh staplers may be used to staunch Blood Loss as a Half Action. A small chainscalpel attachment reduces the difficulty of limb amputation to Challenging (+0). This blade may be used as an improvised weapon, and on a hit it deals 1d5 Rending Damage. Finally, the medicae mechadendrite may be used to gain a +10 bonus to Interrogation Tests. This mechadendrite may be shoulder or sternum-mounted. You must have the appropriate Mechadendrite Use talent to operate this implant.

# **Mind Impulse Unit**

These devices, also known as sense-links, allow the owner to directly interface with a machine or technological device, and see very widespread use among the Adeptus Mechanicus who regard them as objects of divine communion. A basic or crude MIU rig involves a single spinal or cortex connector, while the advanced variant will also include wrist connector probes (and possibly mechadendrite connectors) in addition to the spinal plug.

Common models impose no modifiers to machine spirit communication and add a +10 bonus to Tech-Use, Pilot or Drive Tests used in conjunction with devices capable of MIU linking.

Poor MIU systems require a successful Willpower Test to use and impose a –10 penalty to interact with machine spirits.

Good models grant a +10 bonus to communicate with machine spirits, and with Tech-Use, Pilot, Drive, Logic, Inquiry and Weapon Skill Tests when interfaced with MIU systems.

# **Optical Mechadendrite**

This highly flexible, camera-studded mechadendrite is designed to assist in inspection and detection. This mechadendrite may extend to a length of three metres, and can reduce its width to pencil thickness. It grants a +10 bonus to all Perception-based Tests. The optical feed allows the user to examine surfaces at a microscopic level and may also be used as a telescopic sight. The mechadendrite is also mounted with an infra-red torch and sensors. A character using the mechadendrite suffers no penalties due to darkness and gains a +20 bonus to vision-based Perception Tests at night. Finally, the mechadendrite is fitted with a light that may be tinted a variety of different colours, depending on the controller's whim. This mechadendrite may be shoulder or sternummounted. You must have the appropriate Mechadendrite Use talent to operate this implant.

# **Utility Mechadendrite**

This two-metre long limb houses a variety of tools and attachments designed to assist a Tech-Priest in the course of his holy duties. This mechadendrite counts as a combi-tool, granting a +10 bonus to all Tech-Use Tests. The limb also houses six injector pistons, each of which may be filled with one dose of sacred machine oil. These must be supplied and replaced separately. In addition to this, the limb contains an electrically powered censer, which can gust incense fumes over particularly troublesome faults. The censer generates one "blast" of smoke every fifteen minutes. This may be employed in melee combat to distract and choke, imposing a –5 penalty to Weapon Skill Tests made by all living creatures within a two metre radius for one Round. This is a Half Action. Unless the censer is deactivated, all Perception Tests made to detect the Tech-Priest that rely on a sense of smell gain a +10 bonus. Finally, the mechadendrite contains a cutting blade. This counts as a knife with the Defensive quality and mono upgrade. You must have the appropriate Mechadendrite Use talent to operate this implant.
